[Music]
Both parties want their little
demonstration. My instinct is this
probably goes on for about a week.
>> Refusing to release the BLS data is
going to be a problem for the markets.
>> Probably this report is not coming out
on Friday.
>> If we still have a shutdown, it could
impact the Fed meeting and that might be
reason for people to pull back.
>> Even with the long shutdowns, you still
have markets outperforming. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, entering a government
shutdown. Congress blowing past the
midnight funding deadline, putting some
of this week's key economic reports on
hold and leaving some investors focused
on alternative jobs data. ADP is coming
up later. Yeah, look, this is make ADP
great again. This is the week where all
of a sudden the alternative data sources
take on a disproportionate amount of
information, a disproportionate amount
of clout in markets. Expect pretty
significant trading ranges where you get
both ADP as well as ISM manufacturing
later this morning. They may be the last
clean reads because tomorrow we're not
getting jobless claims and on Friday
we're probably not getting non-farm
payrolls report heading into what will
be a very fraught Fed meeting at the end
of this month. We did this back in 2013.
We had a non-farm payrolls report that
was delayed by a couple of weeks and
depending on on how long this goes on
for, we might be doing it all over
again.
>> Well, we are doing all over again. The
question now is how long will this
shutdown last? We are in a government
shutdown. So, you're going to see a
number of workers that are going to be
furoughed. The reason why this morning I
am waking up a little bit more of
optimism that potentially this is going
to be a short shutdown is we already see
some Democrats caving. Overnight, you
had three Democrats decide to vote for
the clean continuing resolution the
Republicans put on the floor. They'd
need to just flip five more. When this
starts to hit the DC metro area, do you
think the senators of Virginia and
Maryland are just going to sit back? Are
they going to say, "No, you know what?
Our constituents do not have work right
now. They are not being paid. They can't
go out pay for their bills. We are going
to vote to keep the government open."
>> It's quite a start to Q4. Let's talk
about Q3, the final month of Q3. Markets
don't care about any of this. the
strongest September for equities going
back 15 years. The biggest month for
debt issuance, the biggest September I
think on record for corporate debt
supply. And we closed out the month with
the biggest leverage buyout ever in the
history of financial markets. That is
quite a September.
>> It sounds very risk. At the same time,
you had the biggest rally for the month
when it comes to gold for the month of
September going back to 2011. So
definitely a different tone to all of
this, but the markets wide open with the
expectation that the economy will chug
along and the Fed will keep easing into
a vacuum. Except it will not be a
vacuum. And this is going to be really
important at a time where the government
shut down and we're not getting those
official metrics. How much more
important will some of the earnings
reports be, especially as they start
trickling out with Delta and then JP
Morgan and the rest? All of a sudden,
that might be the most important kind of
information that we get for uh setting
the tone the rest of the year. I can't
believe we're doing ADP guesses, but we
are. So, median estimate is 51K, highs
80, lows 25. This is the real deal. 8:15
Eastern time is ADP day this Wednesday.
From New York City, welcome to the
program. Coming up this hour, George
Canas of MUFG as we kick off Q4 with a
government shutdown. John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group on why it's likely to
resolve within two weeks and Evan
Spiegelman of Beimo Capital Markets as
the White House inks a deal with big
farmer. We begin this hour with our top
story. The US government shutting down
for the first time in nearly 7 years.
Bloomberg's Laura Davidson joins us now
from the nation's capital. Laura,
welcome to the program. What happened
and how long is this going to go on for?
>> Uh so at midnight uh the government shut
down. Uh this means that uh you know
there will be uh almost no one working
at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, no
jobs report. There are some agencies uh
that will stay open and keep operating
uh with uh with minimal staffing. Things
like the National Park Service. The
White House has wide latitude on what
they keep open, what they shut down. So
it's a it's very much a political
calculus of of you know sort of who do
they want to to pinch and where the pain
points are going to be. Uh in terms of
how long this lasts, it's not clear yet.
It looks like at least a couple of days.
Uh senators are set to leave town for
the Yamapour holiday. The House isn't
even in town and you know right now uh
it's still uh Democratic leaders and and
Trump you know sniping at each other on
social media. Once we get into the
weekend though and into next week uh
it's possible we could see some
daylight. We saw a couple Democrats uh
join with Republicans last night to uh
to vote for um opening the government
that if did not pass, they need at least
eight Democrats to join with them. Uh
but they've already got three. Getting
five more. You know, as the pain really
sets in, as people aren't getting paid,
as key services are delayed, that could
start changing the minds of lots of
senators.
>> Laura Davidson with the latest down in
Washington DC. Laura, thank you. More
from Laura later on this morning.
Tracking this story. This is how it
usually plays out. Goes on for a little
while. Public gets sick of it, blames
both parties, and someone caves.
>> Exactly. And right now what you have at
the moment is no party is fully
blinking. But that is going to change
because this is just going to drag on.
And as I said, you have senators from
Virginia and Maryland where their
constituents are going to be directly
impacted today immediately and that
might flip some votes
>> which is why typically the market looks
through it. So is it different this
time? Here's the view on Wall Street.
George Canas of MUFG writing the
following. If a shutdown lingers, it
will end up delaying upcoming economic
data releases and likely dampen risk
takingaking. George joins us now for
more. George, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Want to get to the final point there.
Why will it dampen risk takingaking? Do
you sense that this is somehow somewhat
different?
>> Look, so this is a year full of
disruptions, contradictions. You guys
opened up with how markets have been
riskone, climbing the wall of worry.
Nothing really phases these markets, but
there's always that like moment in time
where you're kind of compressing towards
the end of the year. Good gains. Maybe
you use this as an excuse. It's a
catalyst to say, you know what, take
some chips off the table. It's been a
good year. If this were to linger, it
could be disruptive.
>> So, it's just a theory that there's
something potentially that could disrupt
things, so you might as well sell. Does
that actually fly for you? What would
you actually sell if you're going to
derisk?
>> Well, look, I mean, you're you're
already seeing the weakness in the
dollar. You're I mean, your traditional
macro products, it's going to be about a
relative value play. Uh you the the you
know, equities have had a great run.
Let's not kid ourselves, right? So, I do
think that there's um you know, again,
let's see if this lingers. If it does
and it goes on to the weekend, I think
it will matter.
>> I feel like every single month people
are saying there is something that will
matter because I'm nervous about
valuations. Does that sort of work
anymore given the fact that the
underpinnings of this have been proven
out in the earnings have been proven out
in some of the investments particularly
from the tech giants?
>> Look, I mean, uh I I think we can't
conflate all that stuff. I think again
as my point earlier, it's the time of
the year I mean like you you have a lot
of gains. This is where you can you
could get defensive if you wanted to.
>> Do you think if the market takes a
downturn that will be enough to maybe
push Congress to actually act the way
the bond market pushed Trump to act in
April?
>> That's a great point. So I mean I think
risk markets here matter more. The
dollar matters a lot too. But I mean it
only matters if it really changes the
foreign flow which has been largely
coming in as a hedged flow. But if the
dollar were to change, you know, I think
that would matter. And I think, you
know, if equities take a turn,
>> how much does it matter to the market
that we're not going to get Friday's
jobs report as of now?
>> Um, I mean, look, you guys were kind of
poking fun at ADP, but ADP is, you know,
has been actually been proven to be a
better predictor of what's really been
happening to the jobs market. So maybe
we might like have a sigh of relief
because NFP has been so wrong for so
long.
>> Just to be clear here, that is a sport
that a lot of people have enjoyed for a
long, long time. I was going to say,
just to be clear, not unique to any of
us.
>> I don't think that we were poking fun at
it. I think that in fairness we are
saying make ADP great because people are
actually going to care about it. But
carry on.
>> Look ADP has been like a better
predictor of like what the true
underlying
great already.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> The confidence numbers from consumers
aren't great. Jobs data hasn't been
great either just in the last 24 hours.
The quits rate the lowest this year.
Consumer confidence 5-month low. The
share of individuals saying jobs were
plentiful the lowest since 2021. We've
got a high confidence investor and a low
confidence consumer. What's the credible
argument for that dichconomy to persist?
>> I mean like that it doesn't persist. I
mean unless you start to really place a
greater emphasis on productivity and
that the consumer doesn't matter in a an
economy that's a consumer-based economy.
That means you think that you're you're
changing how this economy operates. And
maybe that's happening with AI and all
the investments. But that that's a
little bit a bridge too far for me at
this stage. I mean it takes time to
implement all these like these sort of
new technologies and we've put a lot of
money into it. The consumer is still
relevant. So if you kind of cut off the
consumer here I I think that jobs market
for me.
>> Do you think we've reaching the limits
of looking through weak data here?
>> I do because again time of the year and
the fact that we've been very nonchalant
complacent there's lazy longs in a lot
of different asset classes.
>> How about lazy longs and bonds? You
didn't mention going into bonds
necessarily. You talked about a
potential weaker dollar. You talked
about lightning list, lightning risk.
Are bonds the same kind of trade as they
have in the past during government
shutdowns.
>> I think it depends on Yeah. Yeah. It
depends on how long it lasts. I mean, I
think past is not prologue. So, we can't
really we can't go back and we we
haven't really had a long enough
shutdown and we'll see how long this one
persists. But I do think the the the
changing nature of flight to quality of
the bond market has been with us for the
last 18 24 months, right? So I think
this one would probably prove in the
same direction that like the the reach
for treasuries probably won't be as
strong as in the past because you you
have alternatives now you you just sit
in cash for for longer. You could buy T
bills. So like duration probably won't
trade that well if this were to last
because it it highlights the the
potential dysfunction that is concerning
on the fiscal outlook, right? So like I
think that's all part and parcel. Um
again depends on how long this lasts.
And maybe it's a nothing burger and
it's, you know, and we're we're gone by
the weekend before the weekend. But if
this goes into the weekend, I think it's
risk offer, you know, and bonds could
potentially be under pressure, too, like
the long end of the curve.
>> When was the last time you had uh this
much or this little conviction?
>> Um, look, I mean, I think in general,
investors are just, you know, have been
and forecasters have been just going
with the flow, right? And and just
operating with how markets, you know,
provide uh, you short-term trading
opportunities and being very tactical.
Uh I would say that this is you know
very this is the new world we live in I
think.
>> Well do you push back against that
against the flow? Is this the time to
start pushing back against what has been
a winning trade which is stocks go up
burr
>> everything goes up. Yeah. No I think I
think I think I think we're in that sort
of uh we're in that sort of stage where
I think it does make sense to be more
discerning. I think it makes sense like
you had an amazing year and you
mentioned gold like all of these
different asset classes cannot be right.
They're all giving they're all going up
for different reasons.
>> What else do you need to see to get to
this point? The title of your note, it's
still a reach for Goldilocks outcome
>> because we haven't really seen it
brought broad broughten out, right? it's
been so concentrated and like the the
the the sort of capex the sort of sort
of um performance that's been so
concentrated in tech it masks the
reality and and and you know John was
mentioning it before the consumer cannot
be this pessimistic and somehow we're
going to have like the start of a of a
robust cycle that mean that means that
we're still on the tail end of the
consumer side and and and you know tech
operates on its own planet
>> I just want the sound effect again
that's all I want you're having quite a
week aren't you what was that one burr
is that the money Yeah. Yeah. Bunny
particular br that's just essentially
right. You think you think it's got like
a very kind of Latino like
>> I just for me all I can say is that's
what I think about every day when people
have this lack of conviction and it's
just you know buyers.
>> That's what gold thinks too, right?
>> Yeah.
>> I know we get comfortable around this
table sometimes. Just to remind you we
are live. George, it's good to see you.
Thank you.
>> Can't really do this. George Canas of
MUFG. Thank you very much. Let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie. Hey
Vonnie or yes, thank you John. Good
morning. Well, as you guys have been
discussing, Congress blew past a
midnight funding deadline, triggering
the first government shutdown in nearly
seven years. The White House's budget
office ordered agencies to begin
executing their plans for a funding
lapse. The shutdown will disrupt
hundreds of thousands of jobs, upend
many public services, and lead to delays
in key economic data.
The White House has pulled the
nomination of EJ Antony to lead the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. His
nomination showed signs of faltering due
to criticism from senators and
economists. A White House official said
the administration looks forward to
nominating a new candidate soon.
Bank of England deputy governor Sarah
Breeden warned of the threat to the
economy posed by leaving interest rates
higher for too long. Breeden said that
efforts to stamp out a fresh spike in
inflation by holding borrowing costs in
restrictive territory come with risks in
the other direction. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Sticking with the Bank of England,
Katherine Man, a member of the Monetary
Policy Committee, speaking at
Bloomberg's Women, Money, and Power
event over in the City of London.
Bloomberg subscribers can tune in to the
interview on Live Go on the Bloomberg
terminal. Up next on this program, we're
playing the blame game.
>> Republicans are plunging America into a
shutdown.
>> We're doing well as a country, so the
last thing we want to do is shut it
down. But uh a lot of good can come down
from shutdowns.
>> A conversation up next with John Lever
of Eurasia Group live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
shutdown day one. Some economic data
might be compromised by this. I'm sure
you're familiar with the story. So, this
is the week ahead for the economic data.
We will get ADP later this morning at
8:15 Eastern time. Look out for the PMIs
at 9:45. The ISM as well. Super super
important. Big question mark around
jobless claims and around payrolls.
Jobless claims and payrolls are super
super important for this Federal
Reserve. just where is this labor market
at a time when FOMC officials at the
moment are super divided on what to do
next.
>> Yeah. And as you were mentioning
earlier, the Jolts data that we got
yesterday, the job openings data, which
is the last official data point that the
Fed may get before their uh meeting at
the end of this week, showed the same
kind of inconclusive market that we've
been talking about. the idea that the
actual number of job openings came in
higher than expected actually rose. But
when it came to the quits rate, it tied
with the lowest rate going back to 2020.
This is not a dynamic market. This is a
stagnant labor market and it has a lot
of concerns and red flags around it.
>> Got a low confidence consumer. Pair that
with a high confidence investor. There's
something got to give in Q4. Equity
futures to kick off Q4 look like this.
We're negative by 0.5% on the S&P 500.
On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.6 six
following a three-day winning streak on
a benchmark closing out Q3 in a bond
market. 2-year, 10 year, 30 year. Focus
on the front end of the curve just for a
moment. 360 on twos. We just closed out
the quarter. The 2-year bond you're down
for three consecutive quarters for the
first time, believe it or not, since
2020. That story though has started to
stabilize. I think people coming to
recognize realize just how divided this
committee is on how far they're willing
to take things and how quickly they're
willing to cut. Again,
>> on one side, you've got Governor Myron,
you have Mickey Bowman, you have Chris
Waller, although he's been really quiet,
which is notable to me. Then you have a
mounting number of other Fed officials,
and yesterday adding to the roles, Lori
Logan of the Dallas Fed coming out and
really putting the emphasis back on
inflation, saying the combination of
persistent inflation, resilient demand,
and modest labor market slack indicates
to me that policy is likely only
modestly restrictive. There may be
little room to make additional rate
cuts. flies in the face of getting down
to 2% in quick order, which is possibly
the reason why you're seeing that
stagnation in the 2-year.
>> That's next meeting for the Federal
Reserve at the end of October, the end
of this month, October. Unreal. And the
surveillance this morning, we're playing
the blame game.
Republicans are plunging America into a
shutdown, rejecting bipartisan talks,
pushing a partisan bill, and risking
America's healthcare.
>> We're doing well as a country, so the
last thing we want to do is shut it
down. But uh a lot of good can come down
from shutdowns. We can get rid of a lot
of things that we didn't want.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Senate failing to reach a deal to extend
funding, plunging the US government into
a shutdown, putting a slew of economic
data in jeopardy. John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group writing the following.
Even a macroeconomically ins significant
shutdown could have knock-on effects
that delay data releases for the next
several months as federal workers get up
to speed. John joins us now for more.
John, welcome to the program. I want to
pick up on the language of the president
there. That last line, we can get rid of
a lot of things we didn't want. Is this
going to be a different kind of
shutdown?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think the
fact is that Trump is playing a
different game by a different set of
rules than I think the Democrats on
Capitol Hill are playing right now and
he's been playing that all year and he's
been playing that for his entire
political career. And I think that
there's a lot of unpredictable effects
that are going to come out of this
shutdown that we haven't seen before. If
you look at the pattern this year, it's
that Congress's authority has been uh
usurped or even eliminated in many cases
when it comes to decisions about what
the federal government's doing, uh who
they're funding, whether or not they're
laying off uh workers or even closing
entire divisions, and Congress has been
helpless to stop it. So, part of the
reason the Democrats are behind this
shutdown is are are rallying behind the
shutdown is because they want to force
the power of the purse back over to
Congress. But I don't think Trump cares.
And again, he's playing a different
game. He now has the power to choose
who's essential, who isn't. He's going
to take that opportunity in a way I
don't think we've ever seen in the
United States before and uh deem the
functions that he prioritizes as
essential and then cut off the ones that
he doesn't. So, this is a very different
uh uh type of shutdown than we've seen
before. Even the one that Trump oversaw
in 2018 and 2019, the government was
partially funded then. So you had the
core defense functions and other
security functions had an authorization
from Congress to keep spending money.
Right now nobody does. So Trump's in
charge and he will be in charge until
the Congress agrees to reopen the
government.
>> Does this administration try to make
furloss actually permanent?
>> It could try. I mean I think that's a
decision that's up to the courts. I mean
one of the interesting phenomenon so far
this year is that the courts are awfully
slow and the Trump administration could
be pretty quick. So they could use this
as an excuse to try to furlow more
workers. You know, there's been some
resistance to those furls even within
the cabinet agencies uh that are run by
Trump appointees because they want the
people to do the work they're supposed
to do. But now they suddenly have an
excuse and the clearly the uh White
House sees a political advantage in
forcing more of these layoffs in order
to bring Democrats back to the table and
I expect that they're going to use it.
Well, John, three Democrats already back
at the table last night in the sense
that they voted for the Republican clean
CR. They only need to get five more
Democrats to to then reopen the
government and keep it funding to the
end of November. Do you think that
Schumer is losing the moderate wing and
potentially this is going to be a short
shutdown?
>> It could be. I mean, you know, your your
your base rate here, your expectation
should be that this is a relatively
short shutdown. uh you know because of
these political pressures on members of
Congress who don't want to see this
happen and the only thing you need is
exactly what you said. You need seven
Democrats to say we've had enough. We
already know the universe of those seven
dem seven Democrats. They're the ones
that voted to end to to open keep the
government open uh this spring. And you
mentioned Schumer, he's the one who's
under the most pressure because he took
just withering criticism for his
decision to keep the government open.
But the fact and he's under a lot of
pressure from the Democratic base to
regain leverage over President Trump.
Leverage that simply doesn't exist
through Congress right now. And so I
think that he's in a really tough spot.
Those other Democrats, I think this is
an easier calculation. People like John
Federman from Pennsylvania see that this
is a tough thing for the Democrats to
win. And over the next week or so, I
expect those numbers are going to grow.
And I I you know, that will help to end
the shutdown probably sooner rather than
later.
>> That actually is exactly where I wanted
to go, John. this idea of in March what
happened to Chuck Schumer when he what a
lot of people Democrats in particular
said caved to the Republican demands to
keep the u to keep the government open.
Is this just performative to avoid that
to plate a certain side of the
Democratic base? Is that how it's being
read at least in polls?
>> Yeah, I mean I think he's in a tough
spot and you know I feel bad for the
guy. There's no way to win this thing.
Like he's got to keep his eye on the
Democratic members who elected him to be
leader. He's got to keep his eye on the
Democratic voters who elected him to his
Senate seat. And they problem the
fundamental problem for the Democrats
right now is they don't have a strategy
to push back on Trump that they they've
been unable to land any punches and
they've been unable to draw any blood.
His popularity is reasonably high for
President Trump. He's hovering around
the mid to low 40s, which is much better
than he was doing in his the entirety of
his first term. and he's doing all kinds
of contra controversial stuff that the
Democrats hate and they can't articulate
the case against him. And until they
figure out how to do that, Schumer and
the other leadership are going to be
looking for things like this that allow
them to kind of shore shore up their
their base on the left uh and plate them
a little bit and and try to land these
punches that so far they've been able
unable to do. I think this is a prime
example of that.
>> John, the markets largely don't care. Do
voters care? Has there been anything in
the voting or the polling that shows
that this is swaying the needle in any
capacity?
>> I suspect at some point the chaos will
be enough and people will say, you know
what, we don't like either of these
these jerks that are causing all these
big problems. That's kind of where I
think this ends up in the polling. I
don't think it necessarily falls on the
Republicans or Donald Trump. I don't
think it necessarily falls on the
Democrats. Maybe the president takes
more responsibility because he's the
executive executive. Um, but you know,
if you look at the elections, there's no
evidence that these shutdowns, as we
talked about last week, there's no
evidence that these shutdowns make any
difference in the elections whatsoever.
In 2013, the Republicans were solely
responsible for at the time a very long
shutdown over Obamacare, and in 2014,
they won back a majority in the Senate.
So, there's just no evidence this this
has lasting political effects. I think
it could be a drag on the overall
approval rating of lawmakers in
Washington, but I don't think either
side's going to win or or stands a lot
to lose here.
>> John, do you think it's time for new
leadership in the Democratic party?
>> Uh, probably. I mean, I don't think
there's anything, you know, I think that
being a leader is a tough tough job. I
think it's a it's it's a hard thing to
do. They have a new leader in the House
and he's doing his best. I I think in
the Senate, you know, I I wouldn't cast
dispersions on these guys. I used to
work for the the minority leader uh in
the Senate and for the Republicans and
and it's a tough job. It's a tough job
keeping everybody happy. But you know
they're again the Democrats are not
articulating the case against Trump and
their leadership is not helping them do
that. So I think looking to Congress for
your leadership right now is a mistake.
And if I were the Democrats thinking
about the next leader of the party who's
going to be running for president, I'd
be looking out to the states, to the
governors, to people that aren't
currently playing on the national stage
in the way Schumer is. You know,
Schumer's got to do do his own tough job
managing his own caucus and playing the
inside Washington game and then these
governors that are out in the states are
the ones who I think will be the more
effective messengers against Trump
eventually.
>> John Lieieber of Eurasia Group. John,
thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Such a
strong final point about the future of
leadership of that party.
>> And there's a lot of swirls around about
Chuck Schumer's not just his leadership,
but his seat in New York. Point blank.
Yesterday, Alexander Kasio Cortez was
asked, "Are you going to primary
challenge him?" and she said, "Look, a
lot of Republicans think the shutdown is
because I might go after his seat. They
should come talk to me directly. Come to
my office." She said,
>> "If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Welcome to our office.
Futures negative by 0.5%." Up next, Amy
Falls of Northwestern University
managing one of the nation's most
valuable endowments. That conversation
just around the corner.
[Music]
Goodbye Q3. Hello Q4. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 negative by 0.5% following a
3-day winning streak on the Nasdaq.
We're down by 0.6. What a run through
September. For the third quarter, the
S&P up by 7.8%. The Nasdaq 100 up by
8.8. The Russell over the 3 months. The
bulk of the move came in August. But for
the third quarter, the Russell up 12%.
in the bond market, 2-year, 10 year,
30-year. Lisa and I were talking about
what was happening at the front end of
the curve, 360. We've had three
consecutive quarters where 2-year bond
yields have been falling. Again, the
bulk of that move actually came in
August following that really weak July
jobs report. But that move in the bond
market just unleashed another leg higher
for gold. Gold 4-day winning streak into
Wednesday, make it day five, up again
this morning by close to 3/4 of 1%.
We're staring down the barrel of 4K on
gold. Gold on the quarter had a 17%
rally. Gold on the month was up 12%.
That is the best monthly gain going back
to 2011 for the yellow metal.
>> Last night I was listening to a podcast
about gold cuz I was so inspired and
about why Spaniards loved gold back in
the 1400s. I know you're rolling your
eyes at me, but it was cuz it was
physical and they could actually take it
with them. And there is this idea that
you cannot take the hopes and dreams of
the economic progress of a nation with
you in the same kind of way that you
used to. the dollar. Well, guess what's
happening down in DC? The euro, well,
check out France. And so, this is the
reason why gold keeps climbing, even in
the face of people saying it's just a
rock.
>> Just for the record, I wasn't eye
rolling. Someone else around the table
was, you know, just in case, you know,
just in case. You do a great eye roll.
Mine not so much. 3 hours away from the
opening bell. Let's get you some morning
movers. Here's Yahihara with more. Hey,
Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. We start with Lithium
America's shares are surging 33% in the
pre-market after energy secretary Chris
Wright confirmed here on our network
that the US will take a 5% stake in this
company and a 5% stake in its Nevada
mining project home to the largest
lithium deposit in the US. It of course
marks the latest example of the Trump
administration making investments in
critical areas of the economy as it
seeks to boost domestic production and
cut its reliance on China. And moving on
to the power company AES shares also
moving sharply to the upside up 13% as
we report here at Bloomberg that Black
Rockck Global Infrastructure Partners um
is in advance talks to buy the company.
AS is valued at $ 38 billion including
debt. But it has lagged its peers in the
utility space, making it right for a
buyer, betting that AI will continue to
drive electricity demand. We're
reporting that an agreement could be
reached as soon as this week. And Nike
finally, its comeback bid is finally
gaining traction. Shares are up three
and a half% after sales came in much
higher than analysts were expecting.
That's because some of its initiatives
like perform uh like focusing on
performance and it's and running and
re-engaging with some of its retail
partners are finally starting to take
hold. But there are still hurdles with
Nike saying it expects a hit of $1.5
billion due to tariffs this year. That's
much more than the $1 billion it was
previously projecting. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. We'll catch up with Adrian Ye
as well in about an hour from now to
talk about the latest with Nike. Nice
beat from them. Nice move in the
pre-market. On our radar this morning,
the US government shutting down.
Congress failing to meet a midnight
funding deadline, halting non-essential
services. This is the third shutdown
under President Donald Trump. Asse
Taiwan rejecting a US proposal to move
chip production states side in order to
cover half of America's demand. The
Taiwanese vice premere saying the idea
came from DC and his country would not
agree to the conditions. And finally,
the White House withdrawing the
nomination of EJ Antony to lead the BLS.
President Donald Trump named Anton for
the role after firing the commissioner,
officials saying they will nominate a
new candidate very soon.
>> So his nomination was on the ropes
because before you get to the Senate
floor, before you get to a hearing, you
have to get through a committee. And we
already had Senator Lisa Marowski a
couple weeks ago say the committee
expressed quote extreme reservations
about him. So already that was happening
at the committee level and you can't
lose the Republicans at the committee
level because you for sure know you're
going to lose the Democrats. So his
nomination on the Hill was ready on the
ropes. And this comes after economists
on both sides of the aisle, even
conservative economists saying actually
we don't have faith in this individual.
We don't think he's the right person to
lead the BLS.
>> So this storyy's kind of slipped under
the radar, but I think it's more
important important not just for the
BLS, but also for the process underway
to select the new Fed chair. There is a
history of Republicans pushing back on
the president when it comes to the
Federal Reserve. We talked about Steven
Moore in his first term, nominated for a
seat on the Fed board, had to be pulled.
This happened here with the BLS. I think
keep that in mind if you're really
worried about the independence of the
Federal Reserve and who might be
appointed nominated by the president and
the Treasury Secretary through this
process. This is another example that
Congress will flex his muscles now and
again.
>> And this is another example of how the
market has an upper hand in pricing out
some of the political risk that pundits
talk about because markets never were
that concerned about EJ Antony. They
were talking about the likelihood that
he wasn't going to get through because
of a slew of issues that were uh really
coming from both sides. As a result,
they didn't see this as a real problem
and they are looking through the sort of
questions around independence with the
Fed for the same reason. So maybe point
for markets.
>> The market gets a vote and this time it
didn't even have to vote on this
particular issue. We'll see what happens
with the Federal Reserve later this
year. Let's turn to investing. Demand
for private markets rising as investors
seek a slice of the booming $13 trillion
asset landscape. Northwestern University
among the institutions navigating the
shifts in asset allocation with one of
the nation's most valuable endowments
topping 14 billion just last year.
Joining us now is Amy Fors, the chief
investment officer at Northwestern from
Bloomberg's women, money and power in
the city of London. Amy, welcome to the
program. It's great to get some time
with you. Typically, we wouldn't begin a
conversation with you by talking about
cash, your cash allocation and liquidity
needs, but I think we have to start
there. Amy, what are your cash
allocation looking like now? What does
it look like? And how's that changed in
compared to years gone by?
>> Yeah, it's a little higher. We have
about 7% of the portfolio in cash or
very short-term treasuries. Um, and that
that's higher than normal and also the
duration of the treasuries is shorter uh
reflecting a lot of the operating
uncertainty that we want to be prepared
for.
>> Amy, when did that start? When did you
start stockpiling or adding to your cash
uh holdings? Was there a trigger that
really prompted that shift?
I think it's a combination of things. Uh
the operating we started around December
of last year. Um
there was a moment where I was thinking
about redeploying and that would have
been around liberation day. But I think
the combination of operating uncertainty
and at that time relatively fully valued
markets similar combination to at this
moment where I think markets are pretty
fairly valued and there's a lot of
uncertainty in the economy and there's
operating uncertainty at the university.
It just makes sense to have a little bit
more dry powder and the risk of not
being in the market seems less extreme
and of course it helps to have
relatively high rates on short-term
treasuries. So all three things are
supportive, I think, of having a little
bit more money in your back pocket.
>> Amy, you talk about uh some of the
moments where you flirted with getting
back into the market. I wonder how much
you were influenced by some of your
peers at other universities who had huge
uh allocations to private markets that
they couldn't quickly liquidate in uh
when they needed some cash. if that sort
of encourage you to hold on to more
liquidity as well, whether that
encourage you to stay away from some of
that aspect in terms of redeployment.
>> I I think it's really important. Seth
Clarman used to talk about the option
value of cash and I I mean I think it's
it's harder to measure, but it is very
important to have enough liquidity to
redeploy into opportunity. Um, we do
have a big private equity allocation and
we've actually been growing it over
time, but I think a barbell is can be
quite helpful um, in that you want to be
opportunistic and then you also want the
long-term benefits of extremely long
horizon investing which I think private
equity still represents.
>> What does the rest of the year look like
given the cuts of federal funding from
the Trump administration to universities
like Northwestern?
We we are looking hard at how to um
respond to a changing funding
environment. Um I think there's you know
many aspects to that from an investment
standpoint. We do have to continue to
work on generating high returns. We are
25% of the university's budget. I don't
see that going down anytime soon. And so
we we are stuck in a hard place of
wanting liquidity but also wanting high
returns. So we are definitely barbelling
in terms of how we respond in the
investment.
>> Federal grants remain frozen as well by
the Trump administration. Is there
active outreach between the university
and US officials?
>> Yeah, I am probably not the best person
to comment. I I'm believe there are
there is conversation. Amy, just to
build on this bar balancing though, I
think this is really interesting. How
you balance the move into alternative
strategies with the increased liquidity
needs because of the operational
environment. How are you and the team
confronting this moment? Does it make it
difficult to lean into those strategies
or do you have to remove money from say
your public market allocation to fund
those needs?
>> Yeah, I think you have to have margin. I
think the important thing is to be
really clear what why you're giving up
liquidity and where and you have to
believe you're going to get the higher
returns. One thing that we have been
doing is looking further down the um
market capitalization of private equity
as we see the probability of more money
through retail and other products coming
in at the high end of private equity. We
think the better returns may be
migrating down to middle and lower
middle market private equity. So, we
just want to be sure that we're getting
paid to give up liquidity because it is
valuable both for rebalancing and for
meeting the needs of the university. Um,
I think there are areas of the market
like large cap US stocks where it may be
less important.
You can probably use an ETF and we've
done a little bit more of that where we
believe you can use options or ETFs to
put that exposure on. you you don't need
to lock up capital as much.
>> Amy, you talked about getting to the
lower end of uh the private equity
sphere, lower and and middle market
companies. I'm just wondering if you
still see private equity as a source of
returns over say private credit where
there's been so much interest, so much
money, the discussions around the golden
age of income.
>> Yeah, private credit is a very viable
asset class. I think you know we have a
5% spend rate. So something with a 9 10
11% expected return is good. I think you
have to think about returns net of
defaults and we haven't really seen a
default cycle. So you know I don't think
you put all your eggs in the private
equity uh private credit basket. I do
believe in ultimately earnings growth
does drive returns over the long term.
So what we want to invest in is
companies that can generate good
earnings growth and capital that will
seek companies and make sure that the
management teams are rewarded for uh for
for investing in high ROIC projects. So
I think there is real opportunity with
smaller and middlesized companies to
generate earnings growth with the right
capitalization, the right management and
the the right investment partners. Um so
we we we believe in both. Um, and I
think we are exposed to both. Um, right
now we're probably a little more focused
on deploying new capital into middle
market private equity, but there's
nothing negative about private credit. I
think it's just the spreads are probably
pretty attract pretty fully priced right
now.
>> Amy Falls. Amy, appreciate your time.
It's great to do this and hopefully we
can do this around a table in New York
sometime soon. Amy of Northwestern
University. Amy, thank you very much.
when you're 25% of the university budget
and there's a real risk you might become
a bigger proportion of the university
budget you've got to account for that
amy's in a tremendously difficult
position a lot of people running
endowments right now are you've got to
have that bar that she talked about you
want to shift into alternative
strategies but if you give up that
liquidity you need the returns at the
same time you need liquidity so you're
sitting at the front end of the curve
problem you've got from here is that the
interest rates are going to start to
come down so you've got a decision to
make what do you do with that position
do you have to extend your ration do you
have to think about doing other things
they're going to squeezed more and more
potentially by both the regulation and
what's happening with interest rates.
>> Yeah. And the policy uncertainty because
they don't know exactly what's going to
come come down the pike. What grants are
or are not going to come through? What
strings are going to be attached? Sort
of what we saw with Harvard and the $500
million pact that they uh seem to have
agreed with with President Trump to uh
provide a lot of training to trade
organizations, trade uh trade schools.
There is a question here. How do you
remain liquid at a time where so much of
your investment has been seeking for
yield and illquidity? And we have
already seen that with force sales of
private credit, private equity from the
likes of some big universities already.
So a really interesting moment.
Fascinating. She's betting on middle
market private equity at a time where
there are a lot of questions around the
economic growth of this country.
>> Amy Force of Northwestern University.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you so much. Dallas Fed
President Lorie Logan said the central
bank should be cautious about cutting
rates further. Logan supported the Fed's
rate cut at its meeting last month, but
said the central bank should be cautious
in considering additional cuts while
inflation remains above target and the
labor market relatively balanced.
President Donald Trump says his
administration is close to finalizing a
deal with Harvard University. Trump
initially accused Harvard of failing to
tackle anti-semitism on campus, but
later broadened that to include
allegations of political bias.
Warren Buffett's Burchcher Hathaway
nearing a deal to buy Accidental
Petroleum's prochemicals business. The
Wall Street Journal reporting Berkshire
would pay $10 billion including debt. If
successful, it would be Berkshire's
largest deal since buying reinsurance
company Alageney in 2022. And that's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Vonnie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, the art of the
deal. Today, Fiser is committing to
offer all of their prescription
medications to Medicaid and it will be
at the most favored nation's prices.
Fiser will invest $70 billion to reshore
domestic manufacturing facilities.
They're all coming in over the next
week. We're making deals with all of
them.
>> Up next, Evan Seagman of Beimo Capital
Markets. He's going to explain just what
is Trump Rex. A conversation up next
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Kicking off October on a low. We're down
by 0.6% on the S&P, down by 0.7 on the
NASDAQ 100. Under Savannah this morning,
the art of the deal.
Today, Fiser is committing to offer all
of their prescription medications to
Medicaid, and it will be at the most
favored nation's prices. Fiser will
invest $70 billion to reshore domestic
manufacturing facilities. They're all
coming in over the next week. We're
making deals with all of them. And I I
said if we don't make a deal, then we're
going to tariff them an extra 5, 6, 7,
8%, whatever the difference is, and
we'll take it that way.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. FISA
striking a deal with President Donald
Trump to sell some drugs directly to
Americans at a discount. Evan Seagman of
Beimo has an outperform rating and a $30
price target on shares of FISA. He
writes the following. The announcement
serves as a positive to the biioarma
sector. The deal seems to set a path for
other pharmaceutical players to follow,
allowing for headline pricing
concessions and a Trump win. Evan joins
us now for more. Evan, welcome to the
program, sir. So, I'm going to challenge
you with this. The director to consumer
effort, Trump RX. E, can you explain how
this is going to work and how effective
it might be?
>> Well, it's still TBD as to what this
actually will be. Um, apparently it's a
website that's launching next year that
allows um, you know, direct to consumer
sales of many pharmaceutical products.
Um, there's no website yet. I don't
think, you know, there might be a Trump
RX website if you go to, but it's
probably just a landing page. We have
seen some DTC efforts mainly with the
GLP ones like with Lily Direct. So there
is a model but expanding it beyond that
is a is you know a bit of an unknown. It
is a bit reminiscent of me of when the
government was trying to do the
affordable care act on marketplace
exchanges and that really didn't work
out well. So we will see what happens
here
>> Evan when they go direct to consumer.
Can you just help people understand what
happens with margins when they drop
prices? Are margins maintained? What
happens?
>> So great question. So margins are
actually maintained and a lot of the
drugs that they were discussing with
Fizer are drugs that are not significant
to their you know topline or and are or
are declining in terms of revenue
contribution. So you say you have a drug
with a list price of a,000 bucks no one
actually pays that. PBMs don't pay that.
So if you're giving a discount of 30 40%
and you're passing that through to just
a consumer on a direct to consumer basis
you know nothing really happens to
margins. Um it's you're unlikely to see
the big ticket oncology products in a
DTC market, right? You're not going to
get a $200,000 per year cancer drug
that's given at a hospital via this
channel. It's more for the tablets, you
know, like with Lily Direct for GLP1s,
for inflammation, for um you know, more
primary care conditions. So, is this
essentially just uh cutting out the
middleman, getting rid of say the Care
Marks, the CVS? Should this hit that
entity much harder than the actual
pharmaceutical companies?
>> I would say so. And if you hear
commentary from Dave Ricks, actually, he
highlighted, I believe, on the second
quarter earnings call, his concern and
frustration with the middleman and how
they inflate prices and really just make
it very challenging for patients and
consumers to get access to these
products. Because if you think about it
this way, you have a drug again for
a,000 bucks. The middleman gets that
rebate and discount of 500 bucks. That
savings doesn't necessarily go to the
end user. It's, you know, absorbed by
the system. So, I think a Trump RX or
DTC platform wants to make wants to get
that discount right to the patient so
they're not paying a ton out of pocket.
The issue is we all have, you know,
insurance plans and if we're not going
through the PBM, we don't get our
deductibles and out-of- pocket maxes.
So, you're kind of not getting the full
benefit of your health insurance. That's
a different debate for a different day,
but probably something to think about as
well.
>> Well, but is that part of this debate,
right? I mean, this is essentially a
question of why can't we just have a
simpler system where things cost less? I
mean, it's a pretty basic argument. Why
haven't we done this sooner? And it
comes down to sure the OEMs and it has
to do with the middleman, but it also
has to do with the insurance structures
and how we get premiums and all those
forms that everyone hates filling out.
So, is this a first step to that or is
this essentially a nice prophylactic
move that doesn't actually move the
needle because of all of these other
complications?
>> Unfortunately, I think it's it's the
latter. Um, because in in reality, if
you want to change the system, you need
true PBM reform. You need to really look
at the rebate and discount structures
because while this is a nice headline
and there's going to be some drugs
available online, it's not going to be
the entire pharmaceutical kind of
ecosystem. And I think you really need
to understand what's d what's driving
cost increases in health care, you know,
insurance for example, and I'm not a
managed care analyst, but I've been
reading headlines about how, you know,
health insurance premiums are set to
rise, 10% in the commercial space, you
know, 70% in the ACA kind of marketplace
spaces. So that's a real problem and I
think that's going to hit folks next
year. So if you want sustainable kind of
you know accessibility and dealing with
cost you got to look at the PBMs and the
insurance companies.
>> Fiser Fiser also agreed to spend 70
billion in domestic manufacturing
facilities. Is this the blueprint for
other pharmaceutical companies if they
want to avoid Trump tariffs?
>> For sure. And you know I think it's
important to note all of the companies
that I cover including Nova Nordisk have
significant US manufacturing operations.
So they're constantly investing both
manufacturing and R&D in the United
States. So it's not necessarily a, you
know, it might be a new headline
announcement, but they were probably
planning on doing it anyways. I don't
just see them coming out one day and
saying we're going to invest an
additional 70 billion without having
thought about it previously.
>> So is there even a risk anymore of
tariffs in the pharmaceutical sector?
I never thought there was a real risk of
tariffs outside of the 15% bilateral
kind of trade agreement that we h you
know the US and Europe has on some
products. When we saw the 100% tariff
kind of headline from Truth Social last
week I said that was more bark than
bite. Um because again all these
companies have significant manufacturing
presence here. Um, I think that there
could be some tiny bit of, you know,
some tariffs on, you know, imported API,
which would be 15% on a portion of cost
of goods sold, which really would be
inconsequential when you're looking at
the cost of a pharmaceutical product.
>> Evan, can I just narrow you down on a
number just quickly? When Amarie talked
about that, was it 70 billion? 70
billion investment promise. How much of
that was already going to be allocated?
>> Well, I have to go back and check my
notes. probably pretty much all of that
because you're not going to come out one
day and just say we're spending 70
billion. You know, this is long-term
planning and they were probably able to
think about it over the past years.
They're doing their budgets and then
come out and say, "Hey, we're doing this
for you."
>> Thanks for clarity on that, Evan. It's
important. Evan Seagman there capital
markets. Evan, thank you. Thank you very
much.
>> Yeah, this is sort of the story with a
lot of the companies, right? They can't
just announce $500 billion investing
plans overnight without having some of
this.
>> But they have to add to it. Apple
already had, I believe, 500 billion and
they added 100 billion to go stand
alongside the president in the Oval
Office and say we're adding more
manufacturing and adding more money and
investment into the United States.
>> Unless you're Jensen, of course. Jensen
apparently can just pull that money out
of thin air and make big promises.
>> But then he also can go out and make
deals overseas and he can dance to his
own music. I mean, this is sort of the
single-handed agent around the world. I
want to see a biopic about Jensen Hang.
Please, let's get on it.
>> Oh, like a movie?
>> Yes, absolutely. Like a movie about how
he I think that would be
>> gonna play him. You got an idea.
>> Take some time.
>> I will.
>> You have a think about that?
>> Share it in the next hour. That's your
big tease. Coming up alongside that, of
course, we'll have some guests. Michelle
Weaver of Morgan Stanley is going to
join us alongside George Poll of Signnum
Global, the former White House trade
official Kate Kucawitz and Adrien Ye of
Barclays. Adrian talking about the
latest with Nike. Decent numbers from
them. The stock is higher in the
pre-market, the broader market to kick
off the month of October and the final
month of 2025. A hall Q4 equity futures
negative by 0.6% from New York City. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance is
up next.
The amount of euphoric behavior in the
equity markets is extremely high right
now.
>> There is still so much liquidity in this
market.
>> The earning situation we think is
excellent. Our businesses are having
very strong years. With a little more
certainty, they'd be leaning in more.
>> Long equities and long gold has worked
very well for us and we think that will
continue to work. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 pulling back from
a 3day winning streak. We're down by
0.6% closing out a 5month winning run.
On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.7. In the
bond market, the 2-year stabilizing
around 360. Three consecutive quarters
of falling yields at the front end of
the curve. That story stabilizes going
into the next Fed meeting into the next
Fed meeting. We might be light on
economic data at least for this week.
Payrolls is due to come on Friday.
Claims is due to come on Thursday. We're
in a government shutdown. We might not
get those numbers.
>> So what we will get is ADP ISM
manufacturing and that will come today.
So today actually might be the most
important day of data that we're going
to get this week. And right now what's
interesting to me is that it is a
warshock test. You can look at this
market. You can look at this economy and
see weakness. You can look at this
economy and look at this market and see
great strength. And you have Fed
officials on one side seeing one thing,
Fed officials on the other side seeing
the other thing. And it is unclear where
they are going to come out because we
have heard a lot of Fed speak and it
shows a lot of division on a Fed looking
at the data very differently from one
another. And yesterday Laura Logan
talking about how there's still a lot of
this concern about inflation. We might
not get the next CPI print. That's
October 15th. The issue we have with
this shutdown is we don't really know
the timing of it. Is it going to go
persist through the weekend? Is it going
to be a twoe shutdown? Is it going to be
35 days or just saw 2018, 2019? I woke
up optimistic, as I said in the last
hour, because three Democrats decided
last night to vote with Republicans on
the CR. They just need to flip a few
more. And what do you do with the
senators in Virginia, in Maryland, all
four of them are Democrats when their
constituents are f furoughed and they
want to get paid and they're not and
they're not working. They're going to
then going to have to say, "All right,
we're signing up for this. It's over.
The fight's over. We capitulate."
>> Financial markets are already
optimistic. The September we've just had
has been absolutely historic. We've had
record highs across the board on the
S&P, the NASDAQ, on the Russell. We've
had record debt issuance for the month
of September for corporate credit. We've
seen the tightest credit spreads on
investment grade in multiple decades for
high yield near the tights of the year.
We've just seen headline after headline
that speaks to a market on fire and yet
we've having this conversation about a
Federal Reserve that's cut interest
rates once and is about to do so again
and maybe again and again. This is a
confusing moment and I keep thinking
about what Peter Shear said with the
eye-shaped economy where you have the
bulk of the economy and then you have
this little eye that is so bright and a
little dot is so excited and that is AI
and that's all these big companies that
can profit from wealthy individuals who
can keep on spending and it raises the
question the Fed has one tool. It has
the rate instrument. It has the balance
sheet, has a couple tools, but they they
address the same issues and they're
trying to solve for something that is
fundamental to this question of how do
young people get jobs with AI? How do
you retrain people? How do you get
people into the labor market? Things
that are difficult for them to address
by lowering rates and yet they're seeing
weakness in those areas. It is a
confusing moment and the data is
reflecting that.
>> This year is flying by, isn't it? It
October, three more months to go. Equity
futures negative by 0.5% this morning.
Coming up this hour, Michelle Weaver of
Morgan Stanley with Wall Street closing
out a strong September. George Pollock
of Signnum Global as a government
shutdown begins and Adrien Yei of
Barclays with a surprise B for Nike. We
begin this hour with stocks sliding as
investors weigh the impact of a data
delay. Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley
sees tension growing between the Fed and
markets writing, "Last year the Fed cut
50 basis points when it was concerned
about a weakening labor market. Yet
today the data is even weaker." Michelle
joins us now for more. Michelle, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Thank you for having
>> you and the team have written about the
need for speed. Is that the risk now
that this Fed doesn't respond quickly
enough?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I I I think the market
is now really anticipating these rate
cuts. Our economists expect us to get
another 125 basis points total between
this year and next year. And I think if
with with the shutdown, with some of the
government data delay, I I don't think
that the Fed is going to just, you know,
totally go on pause because of that. The
the data is the data whether it comes
out or not. Um I I think though that
that really is the key risk is is what
what does the Fed react if if we don't
have the data. But overall I would say
the market is in a very strong place. Um
I think with the policy risk side it's
it's really taken policy risks in stride
post liberation day. That was the peak
for fear for corporates. That was the
peak for fear for investors. Um so even
even with this government shutdown if
it's a matter of weeks not a matter of
months I think the market will be able
to take it in stride. Is it a sort of
contradiction in terms for the Fed to be
cutting in the face of these robust
earnings and what we're seeing in
markets?
>> So, so the Fed is reacting to the labor
market data. The Fed is not reacting to
the earnings data. So, I think if you're
an equity investor, what you care about
is of course the earnings and you also
want an accommodative Fed that's able to
lower rates, able to spur growth. Um,
the Fed though, they're not they're not
particularly paying attention to the
earnings data to make their decisions.
Of course, they look at it, but that's
not what their mandate is about. At the
same time, in the past, asset bubbles
and extreme uh valuations in asset
markets has been something that the Fed
has paid attention to. At what point
does it matter? This is something that
John was asking a couple of days ago.
Does it feel like they're concerned
about not addressing the fundamental
problem in the labor market as much as
they are inflating an asset price bubble
and potentially inflation?
>> No, I I I really don't think that we're
we're currently in a bubble state. I I
assume you're referring to AI with with
that bubble question maybe.
>> Um, and I want to I want to unpack a
couple different things. I I would call
it more of a boom than a bubble, a
different B- word there. Um, but we
there's there's kind of three different
prongs to the AI story. There's the
underlying technology itself, which
we're very very bullish on. There are
the AI enablers. They're the ones laying
the ground building the infrastructure
to allow this technology to exist. Yes,
valuations are very rich there. There's
there's no two ways about that. it's
it's a tough time to justify adding
risk, but we do think the demand for
compute is there. And then there's the
AI adopters side of the story and and
what companies are going to be able to
do with this new technology. Um, as you
were mentioning before around earnings,
we think that over over the next year,
next two-year period, that's where
you're really going to start to see some
of those efficiency gains, some of those
benefits from AI adoption.
>> You think it's a boom at some point?
Does it bust?
>> I I would not say a bust. you maybe you
get some correction valuations, maybe
you get a modest reset, but I I I don't
think that, you know, it's 2000. I I
think that's the comparison that
everyone has been trying to make and
okay, great. Is this just the dot bubble
all over again? I would not say that
that's on the table.
>> When you say you think that we're
finally going to see earning strength
from AI, where exactly like outside
Nvidia actually downstream companies
that are supporting this industry?
>> Yes. So, I I would say more companies
are now putting AI products live into
production. We had the chat GPT moment
in 2022 when it sort of burst onto the
scene, became a part of everyone's
consciousness. There was a lot of
excitement around it, but there wasn't a
lot of actual corporate adoption yet.
Um, our tech team runs a great CIO
survey and they estimate that around 60%
of companies are going to have some sort
of AI product in production by the end
of this year. Um, so now we're starting
to move past the testing phase into the
actual use case phase. And I think
what's really exciting for investors
around the AI adoption story is that
it's not just one industry. It's not
just one sector. A lot of the enabler
story has been so concentrated, but this
is really about technology diffusion.
This is about different types of
companies being able to adopt this,
being able to increase their operational
efficiency and and improve some of their
cost structure. So this is really a
broader story.
>> Can we lean on your framework for Morgan
Stanley for how you think about the
equity market more broadly? This rolling
recovery versus rolling recession. This
is something you and a team have done
for a number of years. I think back to
the work coming out of the pandemic. It
was a similar theme. Where are we in
that process now?
>> Yes. Yeah. So, we think we're we're now
exiting a rolling recession and in the
early innings of a rolling recovery.
What do I mean by rolling recession? So,
we of course haven't had a traditional
economic recession. We have seen overall
equity market earnings hold up. But if
you look under the surface, if you're
not just thinking about what's going on
at the index level for earnings, you've
seen the average stock in the market
have negative earnings for much of the
last 3 years. And it's really been
happening in different phases. It's been
rolling. So post pandemic, you had a lot
of weakness in the consumer goods areas,
in the consumer tech areas, things that
were really overconumed during the
pandemic. Then you had it kind of hit
housing, then it hit manufacturing. So
it's it's been happening in stages,
which is why you haven't had that big
index level earnings draw down. But for
the average company in the market, it's
been a much tougher setup. We think now
you're transitioning though into a
rolling recovery phase that bottomed
post liberation day. You've had a really
sharp V-shaped recovery in earnings
revisions breadth. So analysts broadly
are becoming more constructive on the
earnings picture within the market. Um
and we think that that is a pretty good
sign that we're now entering that
recovery phase.
>> I had a bunch of teens at my dinner
table last night and they were debating.
I know that's uh explains a lot. Well,
explains why I make sound sound effects
this morning. Um, I'm just wondering
whether they were going to get jobs.
That's what they were debating. Can this
be a jobless recovery? You start talking
about the earnings breath widening out.
A lot of these uh smaller companies are
adopting AI, algorithmic learning,
making it difficult for some of these
kids when they graduate from college to
possibly get jobs.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that possible? It's it's largely been
a low high or low fire market from on
the labor side. But to your point
specifically around AI, I think you're
starting to see the impacts of AI on
select pockets of the labor market. I
want to be really clear, we are not
calling for mass job loss due to AI, but
when you look at things that are highly
automatable from the AI adoption front,
so particularly computer programming and
customer service roles. So for example,
you just type into a chatbot instead of
speaking live with a customer service
rep. you're starting to see an impact on
on the hiring for those those jobs. For
22 to 25 year olds in those industries,
you've seen a decline in the number of
roles, whereas it's broadened out for
those who are older within within those
job roles.
>> Michelle, this was great. It's good to
see you. Thanks for dropping by.
Appreciate your time. Thank you very
much. Michelle Weaver there of Morgan
Stanley on a rolling recovery that
they're starting to see.
>> They all want to be plumbers, the teens,
because that's the money. Well, I mean,
they all want to go into finance, but
>> a story like 20 plus years ago in the
UK, it was the same thing. We didn't
have enough plumbers. Well,
>> then everyone went to what? To college
to become a plumber.
>> Yeah. Well,
>> then we had too many plumbers.
>> Well, we don't have that yet. So, the
plumbers still are earning a lot of
money. So, people are actually looking
at plumbing. But this is the point
actually the sort of trade occupations
are the ones that actually are the
profitable ones right now versus say
white collar unless you're at the very
top. And how do you get in if the entry-
level jobs? This was the discussion last
night.
>> Still the humanoids start to do that
work too.
>> You think so?
>> Maybe. Who knows?
>> Think the humanoid.
>> I've got absolutely no way to fix your
toilet.
>> I don't know what's wrong with you this
morning. Where these Where are these
impersonations coming from?
>> I had teenagers at my table last night.
>> And they were doing robot impressions.
>> No, that's
>> They need to work on their impressions
and then you come in with better
impressions.
>> What's in the coffee this morning? TK
special.
>> Yeah,
>> that was going on here. All right, let's
give you an update on stories
>> elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Bonnie Quinn.
Hey, Bonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you so much. The US
government shutting down then after a
midnight funding deadline passed without
an agreement on a funding bill.
Democrats refused to sign on unless the
bill included health care spending.
President Donald Trump blamed quote
praised Democrats. The shutdown will
disrupt hundreds of thousands of jobs,
upend many public services, and lead to
delays in key economic data.
Fiser won a reprieve from President
Trump's threatened tariffs on big
pharma. The company agreed to slash some
of its drug prices by up to 85% and sell
directly to the American public. Fizer
said it will make sure Americans receive
comparable prices to those offered in
other countries. Other drug makers are
expected to make similar agreements.
Nike reporting first quarter sales and
profit that beat expectations as its
turnaround efforts started to pay off.
CEO Elliot Hill has pushed to reset the
athletic apparel maker by clearing out
old inventory and reorganizing the
corporate structure, including replacing
many top executives. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. Tom.
>> Hey Vonyie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonnie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, entering a
government shutdown.
>> Republicans are plunging America into a
shutdown.
>> We're doing well as a country. So the
last thing we want to do is shut it
down. But uh lot of good can come down
from shutdowns.
>> Up next, George Pollock of Signnum
Global live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
60 minutes away from the ADP report
taking on additional significance this
week given the fact we might not get
payrolls on Friday. The estimate, the
median in our survey, we do a survey for
this. The median is 51K, the high is 80,
the low is 25.
>> Look, we're kind of poking fun because
it used to be who trades off the ADP
report. And then it became maybe the ADP
report is actually more accurate than
non-farm payrolls. And now it's we only
get the ADP report, so you better trade
off of it. And that's where we are.
>> It's fairly decent data. It you'd call
it second or third tier economic data. I
get that, but for a good reason. Vonnie
was talking about this earlier this
morning. The way UPS sees this moment
that it's like looking through the
keyhole with the alternative data. It's
clear, but it's narrow. You're not
getting that broad look at the bigger
economy.
>> ADP doesn't necessarily look at
government jobs. They look at private
payrolls so they can get a good read on
some of the industries, some of the
sectors. Looking through a keyhole is a
really good way of putting it. People
are going to be looking through every
keyhole they possibly can find without
anything more broad.
>> We'll cover it extensively at 8:15
Eastern time. The market will too.
Equity futures right now in the S&P
negative by 0.5 on the NASDAQ 100 also
down by.5%. The equity market a little
bit softer this morning following some
major gains for Q3 and the month of
September. For Q3 the S&P 500 up almost
8% the Russell up by around 12.
>> And this comes with the idea that the
Fed is going to be cutting rates and not
just what we saw last month but there
will be consecutive moves including at
the end of this month. That's the rub.
What happens if you get more Fed
officials coming out like Lorie Logan,
like Austin Goulsby, like some of the
others who say we don't want to
frontload this stuff. This is actually a
concern to us given the fact that
inflation is still real. All of a
sudden, do you ever risk some of those
trades or is this, you know, money
printer go whatever?
>> Is Goulsby starting to sound a little
bit political?
>> He's been Yes.
>> Yeah. I mean,
>> do you think do you think he gets a gets
the same kind of opportunity that
Governor Myron does, or rather lack
thereof at the moment to voice his
opinion on things? It's kind of odd to
see Goulsby have a certain view on
things right now compared to where he
was 12 months ago, depending on who's in
the White House at any given time.
>> I think that there are two Fed members
that I could say this about. I think
that probably Austin Goulsby is one of
them and Mickey Bowman is the other
who's made a complete flip-flop
depending on who's in the White House.
And so you can see that uh in in pretty
cold relief. So to say that the Fed has
never been politicized or that economics
doesn't have a political bent to it is
probably incorrect. The question is the
battle of the viewpoints and the
ideologies uh coming together with a lot
of people who are just trying to parse
the data and everyone just trying to do
the right thing and I think that that's
the mess in the Federal Reserve.
>> It's an interesting way of framing
things. We'll try and pass the data
later on this morning. Under
surveillance this morning entering a
government shutdown.
>> Republicans are plunging America into a
shutdown. rejecting bipartisan talks,
pushing a partisan bill, and risking
America's healthcare.
>> We're doing well as a country, so the
last thing we want to do is shut it
down. But, uh, a lot of good can come
down from shutdowns. We can get rid of a
lot of things that we didn't want.
>> It's the latest this morning. Congress
blowing past the midnight funding
deadline, pushing the US government into
a shutdown. The third under President
Donald Trump. Bloomberg's Laura Davidson
joins us now for more. Laura, I just
want to pick up on that language again
from the president of the United States.
A lot of good can come from shutdowns.
What kind of good can come from this?
>> Trump has floated a lot of ideas that
Republicans could use this shutdown to
their advantage. They could uh uh enact
large layoffs of federal workers. He
talked about cutting spending of
programs that Democrats like. Uh you
know, Trump and the White House have
wide latitude to to do a lot of things
during a shutdown. uh you know some of
these things like we saw with Doge might
not totally stand up to the law but you
do them and then you know well the
courts are shut down they move a little
bit slower and you don't actually
litigate litigate those things for
several weeks. The question here and
that both sides are weighing uh very
carefully is who is going to win the
messaging war. That is the risk that
both sides have that could this could
dog them in the midterms. Um Democrats
are hoping that um as soon as some of
these notices start going out to people
who are on uh the healthcare exchanges
that their premiums are going to rise
that the public will come to their side.
That is a little bit of a gambit because
the public does not like shutdowns and
right now people view the Democrats as
being the one who are sort of uh pushing
the shutdown. Uh this is a different
position for them. Generally it's the
Republicans who found themselves with
the blame.
>> The blame game will continue through
today and maybe into the weekend. Laura,
thank you. To extend the conversation
joining us now is George Pollock of
Signum Global. George, welcome to the
program. Let's play the blame game.
Who's winning right now? Who's winning
in the court of public opinion?
>> I think for right now it has to be
considered that the Republicans are
winning in the court of opinion. They
get the headline. Republicans funded
government. Democrats said no. And I
think that's a difficult headline to
defeat. And Democrats are still
continuing to be disjointed in their
messaging. We've seen talks about
healthcare. We've seen talks about
recisions. We've seen talks about
congressional power of the purse. And
we've seen talks about immigration. So,
it's kind of been disjointed from the
Democrats.
>> How long do you think it's going to
last, George?
>> I think right now our view is that this
will last around 5 to 10 days because
the reality is Democrats don't like
shutdowns. While they are coming into
the shutdown because they fear their
base, that fear only takes them so far.
And as we already saw with Cortez, Masto
and Angus King voting for the GOP
funding bill, this isn't a thing where
it's going to be a long-term shutdown.
>> When the president says we can do a lot,
get rid of a lot of things. Is he
talking about getting rid of instit
institutions, individuals that are going
to be furled permanently? Is he talking
about permanent changes?
So it seems what he's trying to say is
look once we furlow these employees it's
going to be politically easier for us to
actually operate reduction in forces and
remove them. The issue is the civil
service protections still exist. So
they're going to still have to go
through a notice period. They're going
to still have to go through an
administrative period and it's not going
to be right away and as your reporter
was saying it's going to be subject to
additional legal challenges.
>> George, are you expecting travel
disruptions? And I say this with the TSA
agents that are considered critical
workers, but uh last time around just
walked off the job or called in sick
because they weren't getting paid.
>> Well, that's the big question. And I
think what the TSA agents and similar
people in that positions have learned is
we do have power. So last time was 35
days when they started to do the walk
off the job. I think this time we should
expect that if it gets that far to be
triggered much, much earlier and for
them to be unwilling to really pretend a
long shutdown. George, you said uh the
Democrats are catering to their base.
Who is the Democratic base right now?
>> I think the Democratic base is generally
people who are frustrated with the
president, who are concerned that
Democrats were saying he's going to
govern like a dictator. He's going to
govern like a fascist during the
campaign in 2020. And by and large, to
the president's credit, he's governed as
he campaigned. And for these people,
they can't understand why Democrats are
treating him so normally. For example,
when they when the administration
recently deployed some troops, Hakee
Jeff made the comment, "Well, you can
either focus on that or you can focus on
doing health care with us." And for the
Democratic base, they're saying, "But
wait, he's deploying troops to American
cities. Why are you so focused on such
relatively minute issues like
healthcare?"
>> George, with that in mind, where's the
leadership going to come from going into
the midterms one, and going into the
next general, which is something they've
got to think about and think about
already?
>> I think that's the biggest question. And
the issue is is Chuck Schumer, Hakee
Jeff, while they serve as leaders in the
Congress, they don't have much buyin
with the base. When they speak, I think
the base feels that they're largely
ignoring them and they're not the vocal
advocates they want. Right now, the man
who's probably the most effective leader
of the Democratic party, and I can't say
politically good or bad, is Gavin
Newsome because he's actually
implementing a fight back and arguing
that we can continue to treat this as
normal. So, George, are you saying when
it comes to Democratic leadership, it
all needs to come from outside the
bubble of Washington DC?
>> I think that's where we're going to see
it being mostly come from because the
reality is Jeffre and Schumer have put
themselves in a position be it in March
2025 or with their messaging since March
2025 in the last funding bill that they
feel that they believe to them to be out
of sorts with their priorities. And
Gavin Newsome with his Twitter profile,
with his policies, with his executive
action seems to be the one le truly
leading a substantive push back against
the president
>> and his hair and his Hollywood smile and
all of that. George, of course, you
know, if he wasn't good looking, would
we pay this much attention to him?
>> Isn't that an evergreen statement about
everything in life? I mean, honestly, at
a certain point, to be a politician now,
you kind of have to work social media
and be something of a pop star one way
or another. all of that. But isn't
California like the poster child for all
the things that Republicans have beat
them on in the last general.
>> This is the reason why some people are
wondering whether this is viable.
They're looking at Gretch and Whitmer.
They're looking at other places. But
ultimately, it comes down to what George
was talking about there. This idea of
the base being people who are opposed to
the president. That's a pretty disperate
base with a lot of different agenda
items and who's going to bring them
together and then face that withering
criticism that you were talking about.
>> I'm not jealous of the hair. Maybe a
bit. George, thank you. George Pollock
of Signum Global.
>> Tell us more, John.
>> Thank you so much. He really
>> having a conversation with myself. I
actually wanted to get to this to SLOK
of Apollo this morning. What a note from
him. We in the economics profession need
to look ourselves in the mirror. Goes on
to say the consensus has been wrong
since January. The forecast for the past
9 months has been the US economy would
slow down. The reality is that simply
has not happened. The US economy remains
remarkably resilient. Bottom line is
becoming increasingly difficult to argue
that we are still waiting for the
delayed negative effects of something
that happened 6 months ago. liberation
day for investors. This means that the
upside risks to inflation are growing,
particularly if the Fed continues to cut
interest rates.
>> This is what Max Kentner was talking
about that this may be a policy mistake
if the Fed cuts rates, but that doesn't
matter if you're an investor, you get
long because ultimately they are
underwriting risk. This is essentially
what Torson's been arguing though all
year. So in one level, yes, it's sort of
saying economists have gotten this
wrong, but then he's arguing that
they've been getting it right and for
the most part they have. I feel like I'm
having deja vu to June when Torson put
out a note about how Trump has
outsmarted everyone when it comes to
tariffs. And this is another note that
might land in the inboxes of individuals
working at the NEC and you're going to
hear Caroline Levit talk about it at the
podium. I'm sure
>> without a doubt. I imagine that could
happen in the next few days. Coming up
on the program, we'll catch up with the
former White House trade official
Kukawitz with steep new tariffs in
effect. Plus, Yahara has your morning
movers. Nike shares rising on the back
of their latest earnings report. That
stock is up by 3.9%. And in London,
happening right now, Bloomberg's women,
money, and power event is underway. The
editor-inchief of The Economist among
today's guests. Bloomberg subscribers
can watch on live go on the Bloomberg
terminal live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are softer. We're down by 0.5% on
the S&P. We're down on the NASDAQ, too.
We've been up up and away through Q3 and
through September. What a move we saw in
the third quarter, particularly through
September for the stock market. Through
Q3, the S&P up by almost 8%, the NASDAQ
up by close to nine, the Russell up by
12. And so much of that move for the
Russell came in the month of August when
we had this massive repricing of
interest rates, particularly at the
front end. That was true in the bond
market, too. two-year bond yields down
for the third quarter, down for three
consecutive quarters. But that move
really came through August, through
September that started to stabilize
around 360. And that's because this big
debate is coming together with the
Federal Reserve. In early August, you're
sitting there thinking, okay, really
weak jobs report. Fed's got to move.
Here we are in early October thinking,
okay, how many more times has the Fed
got to move? Governor Myron wants to go
down maybe another 100 basis points. I
can point to one, two, three people on
the committee that are struggling to get
to one or two for the next 6 months. In
August, it was obvious. You had non-farm
payrolls that spooked everybody. You had
revisions that just added to that. Then
you had a Fed that said, "Okay, we're
throwing in the towel. We're going to be
cutting rates at Jackson Hole." And then
all of a sudden, the data starts getting
a lot better. And this looks like a lot
like what we saw last year around the
same time, the head fake over the
summer. And Fed officials are reflecting
that. And they're reflecting the
changes. They are only as good as the
rest of us. And they only see what the
rest of us see.
>> And that's where the market's living in
this wonderful place called 2026 where
growth is better and profits are
healthy. The AI boom continues. Think
about the September we've just had for
credit, for equities, for deal making,
for the biggest leverage buyout ever.
And the Federal Reserve came out and
said, "Don't care about that. I'm
worried about this. I'm cutting interest
rates." And that's what's making the
bulls right now. So bullish into year
end,
>> especially because ultimately you can
make an economic case for it. If the Fed
is watching the labor market, the labor
market isn't really doing much. I mean,
what we saw yesterday from Jolt's data,
which really is probably the last
economic data that we're going to get
from the government, it's kind of the
stagnant market. So, you could say,
okay, maybe it needs it. Do we get a
jobless recovery in the uh market
profits even with maybe the rest of the
economy still lagging behind?
>> Low confidence consumer, high confidence
investor, and that dichotomy has
persisted over the last several months
and may well continue to do so into next
year. Equity futures right now, the S&P
500 negative by 0.4%. Let's get you some
morning movers. Here's Yahihara with
more. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. We start with a big mover.
Lithium America's soaring 33% in the
pre-market after energy secretary Chris
Wright confirmed on our network that the
US is taking a 5% stake in this company
and a 5% stake in its Nevada mining
project, home to the largest lithium
deposit in the US. It marks the latest
example of course of the Trump
administration making investments in
critical areas of the economy. And
moving on to Nike, whose comeback bid is
gaining traction. Shares are up 4% after
sales came in surprisingly better than
expected, but there are still hurdles
with the company saying that it expects
to take a hit of 1.5 billion this year
due to tariffs. That is more than the $1
billion it previously projected. And we
end on Delta. It is rising nearly 1% in
the pre-market after Jeffre upgraded the
airline to a buy with the analyst Sheila
Kuyuglu saying that stronger third
quarter revenue guidance gives her
confidence that margins will expand. Her
new price target is $70 about a 22%
upside from here. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Brammo,
you talked to the airlines. They're
living in a similar world to the markets
it seems. looking forward to a better
few months ahead for economic activity.
>> It's a world in which Delta and United
do very well because they cater to the
upper income consumer as well as the
business class. It's a world in which
Frontier and Spirit are going to
continue to struggle and this is the
dichotomy that we see in the economy and
this is the dichotomy that we see in the
airlines.
>> Delta Delta is so popular right now. I
was looking at a Delta flight the other
day. I won't tell you the route route. I
know you're so American now.
>> Okay. I won't tell you.
>> It's fine. Okay.
>> The route. Yes. Okay.
>> Okay. I'll get through this moment.
>> I hope so.
>> It was so expensive and it was months
away.
>> That's exactly what I complained about
to the United CEO. I said, "Listen,
Scott Kirby, Scott, it's so expensive.
If you want to go anywhere in December,
we're driving." And he's like, "Well,
you know, tough. This is what happens.
Don't go to such popular places or take
time off another time."
>> I would tell that to management. Yeah.
>> It was a work trip.
>> Exactly.
>> So, I'll inform them. Yeah. I will
inform them.
>> I'll go another time.
>> Maybe next year, the year after. On our
radar this morning, a partisan impass
over spending and healthcare triggering
a government shutdown. The shutdown
potentially spiking the unemployment
rate and delaying key economic data.
Elsewhere, lithium Americus rising as
the US agrees to take a 5% stake in the
company and a 5% stake in its Nevada
mining project. The move aiming to speed
up development of a domestic supply
chain to counter China's dominance over
rare earths. That stock is absolutely
surging. As way, the US trade
representative Jameson Greer saying he
expects President Donald Trump to sign
more trade deals with countries in
Southeast Asia during a trip later this
year. Several nations still negotiating
lower tariff rates.
>> So, here's my question. When it comes to
what US trade representative Jameson
Grimmer is talking about, are these the
frameworks this administration has
gotten with Japan, South Korea, and they
want to actually nail some of the final
details, sign them and have these big
ceremonies, or is he talking about other
deals? basically maybe a bigger trade
deal with China because the president
already said he's going to be seeing Xi
Jinping on the sidelines of the Apac
summit. So I think there's a lot to take
from this one statement. What exactly
are we getting from this trip? This is
just a sign on the dotted line from
those frameworks or we going to get
something substantial when it comes to
the two biggest economies in the world.
>> We've talked about this before. Now,
typically any statesman, any leader,
head of state would go into a meeting
with 99% of the work already done and
then you go and sign a deal. That
doesn't seem to be the way President
Donald Trump approaches this kind of
thing. It seems to be deal making in the
moment, which raises a lot of questions
about this moment. If you think about
the objectives they'd like to achieve
with other nations economies in
Southeast Asia, you'd imagine it would
sound like this. Okay, we'll sort out a
nice tariff deal for everybody, but what
we'd like is for you to do something
about the trans shipping, the goods
coming from China into the rest of the
world. At the same time, you're going to
come to an agreement with China on
everything else. I'm not sure how you
can do one and achieve the other.
>> Nothing exemplifies that more than
Taiwan. And you mentioned this earlier,
the idea that Taiwan is coming out and
saying we didn't agree to what the US is
saying, which is that 50% of the
production comes from the US. And this
goes to the question of how much will
Taiwan be a bargaining chip in that
grande taunt between the US and China.
At the same time that Taiwan is
instrumental in a key component in
everything that we use every day here in
the United States. This highlights the
complexity of a simple transactional
type of relationship that we've been
trying to parse out without really a
greater framework.
>> Let's stay on the trade story. The
president Steve Terrace on
pharmaceuticals, heavy trucks and
furniture going into effect today.
Joining us now, the former White House
trade official Kate Kukawitz. Kate,
welcome back to the program. Let's think
about this meeting, series of meetings
that take place in Asia over the next
month or so. How are you thinking about
what can be achieved on that trip?
>> Well, when I listen to the predictions
of Ambassador Greer, the US trade
representative, I I think I have to go
on the side of these are deals with
other Asian economies, probably not
China. And I think if you remember back
to Liberation Day, some of the highest
tariffs were handed out to economies in
Asia. And I think those countries,
particularly the ones that have not
gotten framework agreements yet, are are
still very anxious to hammer out some
sort of deal.
>> Kate, does the US need to present some
sort of larger framework for its
relationship with China as part of these
uh trade deals with in particular
Southeast Asia?
>> Well, it's an interesting question. I
mean, I think what we've seen, of
course, is the agreements the Trump
administration has struck so far have
included provisions directed at China.
So, some sort of framework, a global
framework if you will, around shared
objectives toward China, higher tariffs,
provisions that try to cut down on trans
shshipment, economic security. This is
the language they use when encouraging
trading partners to adopt similar
measures to China. Now what that means
for the bilateral with China remains a
bit you know unseen.
>> At this point though Kate do you get
some sort of cohesive sense of the
relationship that the US wants both with
China as well as with Southeast Asia
which makes a lot of goods for the
United States and is frankly the basis
of a lot of the fast fashion and other
retail brands in particular.
Well, the reality for for most of those
economies, of course, is that the United
States wants us to buy less from those
economies. So, fast fashion, uh, you
know, furniture, we saw some moves this
this week on furniture. This is very
impactful for that region. The president
has been very clear about what he wants
and that is more production in the
United States. So, I think these
agreements around the edges will be on
items we can't make here. critical
minerals will be a focus. Of course,
with Taiwan trying to incentivize more
moves on semiconductors.
The question about what he wants with
China, I think, remains really
questionable. We don't know. He wants a
deal with China, of course, but another
comment that Ambassador Greer made
yesterday seemed to signal, you know, a
bit of a heightened posture, a threat
that tariffs could go back up after
November 10th if we don't continue to
make progress. So, I don't know that
we're getting closer to a bilateral deal
with China.
>> So, what's going to come out of this
meeting between President Trump and Xi
Jinping? Cuz Trump says they're meeting.
>> Yeah. Well, look, a a meeting is not
they're not going to want to have that
meeting result in in heightened postures
that that take us away from a a deal in
the future. President Trump has been
very clear. He wants a deal with China.
So, I think that both sides will find a
way to maintain the status quo. Um both
sides though frankly have been
increasing pressure. The Chinese
themselves this week added new
provisions that will impact goods going
to America. The United States added list
that that impact the way we sanction and
and address foreign companies buying
from China. So they're adding this is
the what we've seen. I think they add
leverage and then they potentially
negotiate that leverage away uh to keep
the status quo. It's a great point. With
all the tariffs coming out, a lot was
missed in terms of the US expanding the
export blacklist, the entity list when
it comes to China. So, do you expect
more moves when it things like that
before Trump sits down with she?
>> Well, I think this is this is this
repeat that we we have found ourselves
in in this relationship. Until and
unless we can articulate a grand vision
for the trade relationship between
between the United States and China, I
think we are going to create these false
pieces of leverage that can then be
negotiated back. So these are important
moves that are being made. The United
States as well in a few weeks will
implement new uh tariff fees on ships
from China. This will be very dramatic.
Um, so these are all new things that can
be negotiated in advance of a november
10th deal while we retain everything
else that's on the table.
>> Kate, just to give us more context, is
that what you think the H20 chip
reversal was about? Getting leverage to
then just unwind it?
>> Well, I have to imagine that was part of
it because the the Chinese made, you
know, a seemingly big deal about getting
access to that chip. They got access to
the chip and then they turned around and
said, "We don't want it and by the way,
we're going to take action against
Nvidia." It all seemed sort of a false
construct to me. Uh so perhaps that was
their intention all along.
>> Kate, appreciate your view as always.
Kate Kukowitz there, the former White
House trade official on what we could
see over the next month. When's this
meeting?
>> End of October. Early early November.
Yeah.
>> What do you think we can achieve?
>> Well, this is the problem. I think the
Chinese delegation want to go in knowing
exactly what's going to come out of it.
To your point, 99% of the deal done and
then at the presidential level, you just
sign off. Uh Trump is happy, I think, to
have basically the start of the
negotiation almost in person. But then
he did say he would go to China next
year. So potentially this is going to be
a two-part scenario. He sees what she
they come out with something maybe
soybeans. I think right now that is
critical to his base in rural America
and then the bigger grand bargain
potentially happens next year.
>> You've said this a number of times when
this kicked off in the middle of 2018.
This took 18 months to sort out before
we secured these purchase agreements
going into the pandemic. Pandemic here
everyone forgot about them. But it took
18 months
>> and that was just purchasing agreements.
Now it's everything export controls tick
tock purchasing agreements rare earths.
This is going to be incredibly
difficult. Fentinel, are they doing
enough on fentinol? If not, those
tariffs are staying.
>> This is a super heavy lift for the
administration to address and it's a big
big issue that's been building for a
long, long time. Equity futures on the
S&P negative here by 0.4% with an update
on stories worldwide. With your
Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey,
Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Taiwan pushing back
on a US request to move chip production
state side to cover half of America's
demand. Taiwan's vice premier says the
country never made a commitment to have
the US produce 50% of the semiconductors
it needs. US Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik said the US has held discussions
with Taipei about the proposal as a way
to reduce the risks of over reliance on
overseas chief making.
The FTC blocking a partnership between
Zillow and Redfin. The deal would have
made Zillow the exclusive information
provider on rentals offered by Redfin.
The FTC said the partnership would cut
the number of websites offering
apartment listings, leaving consumers
with fewer choices and driving up prices
for buildings that want to advertise.
In sports, the MLB postseason is
underway. The Detroit Tigers and Boston
Red Sox are off to a strong start in the
wildard round after each winning game
one on the road. In the National League,
the home teams fared better with the
Chicago Cubs beating the San Diego
Padres's and the LA Dodgers beating the
Cincinnati Reds with two home runs from
superstar Shi Otani. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate it.
Anything to add, Brammo?
>> Yeah, just want to point out that the
Red Sox are moving on, you know, against
somebody else. Just saying. I mean,
look, honestly, I'm pro New York because
here I am at the same time because here
I am. Thanks, Lisa.
>> Anytime.
>> Did Bra just get the eyes?
>> Yeah. Grandma, just get behind.
>> Yeah, it was a rough night. I was
feeling so optimistic when I first put
the game on and then
>> got out for you.
>> Okay. All right. Should we move on?
You're done. You're playing the violin
for us. All right.
>> Oh, yeah. Big violin.
>> Up next on the program, passing on
higher prices.
>> Our members are eventually going to pass
on the price increases to our consumers.
Uh, and that's starting. We're seeing
that in earnest. and our consumers, 75%
of which in a recent survey that we
conducted said we're seeing those price
increases in footwear in particular.
>> A conversation up next with Adrian Yei
of Barclays
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Under surveillance this
morning, passing on higher prices. Now
that those reciprocal tariffs have hit
and are in place, uh it's inevitable.
Our members are eventually going to pass
on the price increases to our consumers,
uh and that's starting. We're seeing
that in earnest. And our consumers, 75%
of which in a recent survey that we
conducted, said we're seeing those price
increases in footwear in particular.
We'll have to see how much price
flexibility or elasticity our members
have in response to what consumers are
saying they need to make a purchase.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Nike's turnaround efforts taking shape
with better thanex expected sales.
Terrace weighing on the company's
comeback somewhat as it raises some
consumer prices. Eden Y of Barclay's
raising her price target on Nike to 70.
Adrian joins us now for more. Adrian,
welcome to the program. Always good to
catch up. Let's just talk about Elliot
Hill and what he's doing and the kind of
turnaround that he's already delivering.
How effective is it? I was thinking
about inventories and how aggressive
he's been on that front, too. Are you
starting to see some real results?
>> We are. you know, inventories are are
the beginning um of any turnaround,
right? It stabilizes the margins. And
so, what I would say here is there are
typically three years in kind of a
branded recovery. The first year is
basically the reset year, which was
FY25, where he came in and he cleaned up
the marketplace and he cleaned up the
inventory and created innovation, right?
An innovation pipeline that we're
starting to see right now bear fruit.
The year two which is what we are in
right now is typically the year of
inventory cleansing and finding a firm
kind of terrairma on margins um and then
year three is profitable growth and
we're expecting that to come in FY27. So
we are clinically going through the
classic steps of the um turnaround and I
would say the key um data point that you
should be looking at coming out of this
print not just the beat on the quarter
we know they ended up lowering the out
quarter but it's really that sales to
inventory growth inflection for the
first time in many quarters we're seeing
sales grow at 1% and inventory down
about two and a 2% low single digit. So
we like that positive spread kind of
it's it's a harbinger of margin
stabilization to come over the next
couple of quarters.
>> So that's the year one year two story. I
think we should sit on year three.
Adrian, what's the secret source? Are
there reasons to be hopeful?
>> There are reasons to be hopeful. Um as
we know they've taken about 30% of these
big three classics, the Air Force One,
the Air Jordan 1, and the Dunk. they
still have work to do on the dunk,
meaning that they want to bring that
exposure, how much in the marketplace
down. They really want to move toward a
pole model. So, you're never going to
see those three classics take so much of
their, you know, sales volume. And what
they're doing is they're replenishing
the pipeline starting with performance.
So, starting in Run, Vero 18, Pegasus,
and Structure. And then as we're going
into next year, you're going to start to
see a lot more of what they call sports
wear, which was previously named
lifestyle, right? But they're calling it
sportsware. It's the non-performance
side of it. That product is going to
start to flow in probably more so in
calendar 26 and then into the back half
of next year. So definitely some hope on
the product.
>> So essentially, the cool stuff that
people can resale on some of those
sneaker platforms isn't going to come
until 2026, 2027. and they're now going
to focus on actual sportsware and
competing with the likes of onbrands or
unholdings or other potential running
brands Hoka that have really gained
steam. Is that right?
>> Yeah. You know the the on running and
and Hoka um you know together almost $5
billion of the performance run category
and they weren't there previously like
in the you know five 10 years ago right
it was Nike dominating that performance
run. So they're coming back to kind of
the win now strategy which is really
focused in athletics and athletic
endeavors and then from there when they
rebase and kind of get back that brand
equity you know Nike is about winning
and is about sports then they'll take
that and then halo that on to kind of
the more sportsear or the lifestyle I
like to call lifestyle um type product
but they're starting to bring that to
market and you're you're definitely
going to see the infill. Remember last
year in February they had started to
pull all that actually now they'd
started to pull all that product out of
the marketplace and you'll see some
incremental infill. Now when you take a
big chunk out and you put kind of
newness in there's always the demand
uncertainty of is it the right stuff and
we're doing that in a tough macro
environment.
>> When you talk about the macro Elliot
Hill said that challenges remain
particularly when it comes to places
like the greater China re region. Can
Nike continue to recover with China as a
part of their business or do they need
to make a decision whether they're in or
whether they're out?
>> Yeah, you know, China um kind of
preandemic was sort of in the mid- teen
range. Um it was supposed to have grown
over that horizon right to about a
quarter of the business. Today it's
about 12 or 13% of the business. So it's
actually shrunk um and the profitability
has shrunk along with it. Um I would say
that a fullblown a fully expressed
turnaround of Nike cannot be done
without its growth regions and China is
the growth region along with Appla um
which was also you know Asia Pacific
Latin America which was also under some
some stress. So those two regions they
talk about being staged. Um traffic got
worse in in China and so kind of you
know they're kind of what I call chasing
the ball downhill. You think you're
someplace, you go to it and it goes a
little bit further down. But I do think
that as you get kind of the global,
particularly North America stabilized,
you'll create some of that global brand
heat and the other two will come along
eventually, particularly as they're
doing this inventory purging.
>> When it comes to Nike, 16% of their
manufacturing is in China. Can they get
that below 10% at some point?
>> Um, so that's the So there's two reasons
really, maybe three reasons why you're
going to be in China. Number one is
volume. So you'll see the bigger
manufacturers having a tougher time sort
of getting out of that China China
region. Number two, you do it for
quality, right? So if you, you know,
higher quality um control and then
number three, you would do it if you
have like, you know, a lot of kids
business um just because of that that
you want to have make sure that you have
that kind of all the regulatory
environment. So what I would say for
them is they can get their um probably
they can make a lot of headway on their
footwear um which you know is primarily
done in Vietnam um and then they can
probably get that to a low double-digit
number. I'm not sure that you ever for
them for them being that large that they
ever can get the economies of scale that
they do in the China region as they move
to smaller markets with you know less
kind of infrastructure um for somebody
as big as Nike. Smaller players can
definitely do it. Big players, $46
billion footprint type players harder to
do.
>> Adrian, you're one of the best. Always a
clinic. Always walk away from these
conversations with a clearer picture of
things. Thanks for being with us. Adrian
Ye there of Barclays on Nike this
morning. Year one, year two, year three.
We're in year two. You talked about
Hoker and on brands. They were getting
killed by them and they're fighting
back.
>> Yeah. They're saying, "Look, we're not
just a shoe to wear to school and then
resell when you don't decide to walk
normally for a while." But I do think
now that they're focused more on
running, the question is how big is this
market? How much can they gain
territory? And how much does their model
depend on imports from Southeast Asia?
>> I can't believe people do that. They're
like getting the Nikes and trying not to
walk properly because they don't want to
crease them.
>> You had this at home.
>> I did have this at home and I was good.
I was like, listen,
>> it's not worth it. Then you know just
the like walking like an avatar footwear
platform. Maybe just get shoes that you
can wear.
>> I agree. Anyway,
>> personal. Anyway, coming up, Abby Yoda
of JP Morgan, Greg Do of EY, Tiffany
Wilding of Pimho, and Vakaria of Bank of
America Securities.
Both parties want their little
demonstration. My instinct is this
probably goes on for about a week.
>> Refusing to release the BLS data is
going to be a problem for the markets.
>> Probably this report is not coming out
on Friday. If we still have a shutdown,
it could impact the Fed meeting and that
might be reason for people to pull back.
>> Even with the long shutdowns, you still
have markets outperforming.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative this
morning. Down across the board. We're
off by a third of 1% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 0.4 after
delivering a monster. Q3 for the S&P.
For the NASDAQ, the Russell over the
previous 3 months, up around 12%. In the
bond market, 2year, 10 year, 30-year
bond yields look like this. Your 2-year
down by one basis point. Your 10year
down by two. 41348.
Heading into this mess. No jobless
claims, no payrolls. in about 14 minutes
time. The headline data point of the
week, ADP employment.
>> I was going to say heading into this the
moment of the week coming up in now uh
less than 14 minutes which is the ADP uh
report the expectation for 51,000 jobs
coming down from 54,000 the previous
month. This is what we're going to be
really ramping up and potentially the
market will really be responding to
because this and then ISM manufacturing
that we get later this morning might be
the last read that we get for quite a
while in our keyhole of economic data
that is getting narrower because of
perhaps the government shutdown.
>> ADP Wednesday doesn't quite have the
same ring to it, does it?
>> Do we get to take off Thursday and
Friday now? Cuz you know, usually it's
jobs and then weekend.
>> No reason for us to be here.
>> Why are we going to be here?
>> Take the long weekend.
>> Wait for the government to open the day.
Exactly.
>> I feel like we're kind of essential.
Let's run with that. All right, that's
kind of important. Okay, I think you get
get paid at the end of the month. Coming
up on the program, super essential Abi
Yoda of JP Morgan Private Bank as stocks
pulled back from all-time highs. Greg
Deo of VY as we break down the latest
ADP employment numbers and Tiffany
Wilding of Pimco with future data in
jeopardy following the government
shutdown. We begin this hour with stocks
pulling back following the strongest
September in 15 years. Abby Yoda of JP
Morgan Private Bank writing, "We are
still constructive on the market despite
a strong year-to- date rally." Abby
joins us now for more. Abby, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is ADP the new NFP?
>> I mean, I guess so, right? This is quite
unique, but I also think the market
doesn't seem to really be paying
attention to what's happening from, you
know, the government shutdown
perspective. It's really focusing on the
fact that the strength in both the
economy and earnings this year have been
underestimated like, you know,
perennially basically starting in April.
um it's just been a complete
underestimation in terms of the
strength, the ability for for companies
to be able to navigate through what is
very turbulent, you know, geopolitical
scenarios. So, I think, you know, we'll
get this last data point. Who knows how
long this government shutdown will last.
Historically, you know, it doesn't have
a it doesn't have a huge effect on on
financial markets. Um GDP can maybe be
affected and then you see a bounce back.
But right now, you know, we just need to
see how long this is actually going to
be going on. Tulson stock of Apollo said
something similar to you. We've
underestimated the economy. He said the
economics profession needs to look
ourselves in the mirror concluded with
this line and I wonder if you agree with
this too. This means that upside risk to
inflation are growing particularly if
the Fed continues to cut rates. Do you
share that view too?
>> We I mean look we don't share that view.
We don't see signs of you know the
services side of inflation you know
picking up which is what would you know
be concerning to us particularly on the
wage front. I think it's very hard right
now for economists to think about you
know what is h there are all these
different things that are happening at
the same time particularly on the
immigration side that I think make it
just very difficult to kind of parse
through the data and think about where
we are from a break even standpoint but
again like just thinking about it we had
you know 2Q GDP come in you know over 3%
we're having 3q GDP looking in that
direction as well this economy can
withstand some slowdown right like it's
on a very very solid footing so Why is
it that the Fed could cut rates even
though there's an incredibly solid
footing in the economy and not see the
inflation that Torsten Sllock is talking
about? Because what's going on in the
labor market, right? Because it's kind
of this like no higher no fire labor
market. So I think this is a unique
position where the economy is growing,
you know, pretty healthily and the labor
market is kind of this odd one out where
it's like just got a lot of things
happening that make it very difficult to
understand where this like is it strong
or is it, you know, weaker at the margin
and what's causing that? Is it, you
know, the visa picture, right? Is it
immigration or is it AI? like it's very
hard to disentangle what's going on from
a fundamental perspective. But right
now, the economy is strong, profits are
strong, but the labor market is kind of
the the the one thing that stands out as
being relatively weak, and that has
implications for wages. The longer that
that continues, how much does it make it
difficult for you to argue in the
broadening out the idea not necessarily
in the other 493 and the S&P 500, but
the Russell 2000 and some of the smaller
companies that might be more susceptible
to that dynamic in the labor market
considering that they're more leveraged
to consumer spending and consumer
appetites.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, I think what what
that will depend on, right? Because
basically what you're getting at is what
happens with margins, right? like what
do how and small companies obviously
have a lot less bandwidth in terms of
the margin story. Um I think that'll be
really you know what will be important
in that discussion is what happens with
technology and what happens with AI is
that being implemented and therefore
offsetting what is like a weaker labor
market and adding to the productivity
picture right like I think that's going
to be very interesting and your point on
small companies is interesting because
when you look at a lot of the data and
the surveys that have been done in terms
of adoption from a from an enterprise
standpoint it's mostly on the large side
right like it's really not on the small
side So because of that dynamic where
you're seeing, you know, the because
they rely so much on the labor side and
have those thinner margins, they should
be probably more at the forefront of
adopting, you know, this technology, but
they're not. So we're not, you know,
we're not of the the camp right now that
you see this broad widening out
necessarily, particularly because you
just need to see more reprieve on the
interest rate side. There's a large gap
between your bare and bull case for mid
2026. What would it take to hit that
bare case? it would be a traditional
recession. So the way we're thinking
about that is that like average 25% draw
down from our let's call our base case,
right? So that would be where where
we're getting to that. Um and that would
just be a market deterioration in the
labor market beyond what we're expecting
at the moment.
>> So beyond the basically stasis we're
seeing when you look at all the AI
growth in the market, can you decipher
any of this and how it's hitting the
labor market even though it's skyhigh in
the equity markets? Well, I mean, I
think the argument is out there that
it's affecting, you know, the entry-
level workers, right? And that's why
you're not see they're you're seeing
their unemployment rate move higher. I
think again going back to this very
muddied picture from the labor market
perspective, you know, I don't think
that like necessarily you're not seeing
younger workers hired because of AI. It
could have been the immigration surge,
right? Like there was, you know, the
administration coming out with this H-1B
vis visa policy, I think, is trying to
tackle that. Exactly right. Like why do
we have this youth unemployment rate
moving higher and these large cap
companies hiring so many people from
outside the US? Why don't we focus more
on the pool of talent that we have here.
Um so I think that's something that's
that's top of mind in terms
>> we're two weeks away from earning season
now. Banks are going to kick things off.
What are you looking for? Starts with
the banks, then we'll move on to other
themes in other industries. But what are
you looking for and how high is the bar
for corporate America?
>> I mean the bar isn't that high. Like
we've had three consecutive quarters of
double-digit earnings growth starting in
you know Q4 and expectations for Q3 are
you know 7 to 8%. So relatively low and
there's been a dichotomy right like
you've seen you've seen revisions for
the full year move higher but it's
really being primarily driven by AI and
you the mag 7 mag 7 um and the rest of
the market is still seeing some weakness
in terms of their revisions. Um so I
think the bar isn't that high. It feels
like a somewhat similar setup to 2Q in
that we think, you know, we're probably
going to exit the quarter with another
double-digit earnings growth um picture
just because again when we're thinking
about the economic backdrop, this was
like another quarter just like 2Q where
everyone's saying we're going to see the
effects of tariffs, it's going to come
through and it just hasn't happened
right to Torson's
>> I'm hearing it again. I'm hearing it
again from other banks. City Nathan
Sheets saying it's going to bite. Other
economists are waiting for it to bite
too. Are you saying it's not going to
bite?
>> Not in 3Q. We're not seeing signs of it
really. Um, and so I think there's and I
think again going back to what we were
talking about at the very onset like the
fact that companies have been able to
mitigate and really work through this
situation in this and everchanging
scenario has been extremely impressive
in terms of what we heard from 2Q and I
just don't see 3Q being any different.
>> Abby, it's good to see you.
>> You too.
>> Thanks for dropping by. Abby Yoda there
of JP Morgan Private Bank. Got to go a
little bit earlier to prepare for the
big one. The jobs report dropping in
about 6 minutes time. The ADP report
just around the corner.
>> I can't wait. I'm so excited. I think
it's going to be a big deal.
>> You're not alone. It might be the only
deal of the week.
>> I think that that's the reason why it's
the big deal. And I just wonder where
the market is more potentially caught
off sides. Is it an upside surprise or
is it a downside surprise?
>> Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere before we get to that with
your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over
to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. The White House has
pulled the nomination of EJ Antony to
lead the Bureau of Labor Statistics. His
nomination showed signs of faltering due
to criticism from senators and
economists. A White House official said
the administration looks forward to
nominating a new candidate soon.
The brief relief for home buyers is
officially over. US mortgage rates
climbed for the first time in 5 weeks,
putting a halt to the recent recovery in
housing demand. According to data
released by the Mortgage Bankers
Association, the contract rate on a
30-year fixed mortgage jumped 12 basis
points to 6.46% last week.
Pelaton has overhauled its hardware
lineup and raised prices in an attempt
to lift the company out of its
multi-year slump. The new products
include updated versions of its bike,
treadmill, and rowing machine. The
fitness technology company is also
rolling out Pelaton IQ, a new artificial
intelligence system to power the
personalization. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, ADP
employment data set to cross. Mike
McKe's going to break that down. Greg Do
of EY will join us to go through the
numbers and react from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
with the shutdown, with some of the
government data delay, I I don't think
that the Fed is going to just, you know,
totally go on pause because of that that
the data is the data whether it comes
out or not. Um I I think though that
that really is the key risk is is what
what does the Fed react if if we don't
have the data. But overall, I would say
the market is in a very strong place.
>> That was Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley. That's not just the key risk.
That's the key question going into
Friday. Will we or won't we get that
payrolls report? At the moment, it looks
unlikely. So, this is all we've got. An
ADP report about 90 seconds away. The
estimate is 51K. The previous number is
54. What kind of limitations are there
around that number? What kind of read do
you get on the US economy? And what on
earth does it mean for the Federal
Reserve when they meet at the end of
this month? Going into that number, the
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 negative by 0.4% on the
NASDAQ down by 0.5. In the bond market,
your scores shaping up as follows. Twos,
10, and 30s. Your 2-year around 360.
Brao, this is it. We've got nothing
else.
>> You know, in fairness, you could say
that ADP has been more consistent than
the non-farm payrolls report where we've
gotten massive revisions. So, arguably,
this is actually really high quality
data that can give us a sense of just
whether it's still on the stasis or
whether it's falling off a cliff. Why
are you both laughing? Because it feels
like someone from ADP just shot you an
email.
>> Exactly. AP commercial break.
>> It's not just ADP. Actually, they didn't
send me a message. Full disclosure pill
was given to Lisa this morning.
>> Well, it's not the Lisa of last year.
>> Pill has been given to all of us because
we don't have anything else.
>> We've got ISM as well.
>> That's true.
>> I think that's going to be important too
if you're pricing in that reaceleration
in equities and in credit too. We need
to see some evidence of that now going
into the fourth quarter.
>> ADP collects the receipts. They collect
they process all of the payments. So
they are seeing something on the ground
and it's the keyhole we're looking
through this morning.
>> Yes. Nice to have you on board. All
right. So the data looks like this. The
estimate is 51K. The high is 80. The low
is 25 with the actual number is Mike
McKe.
>> Well, we are waiting for the number to
drop here. It is going to come any
second. We hope. We're counting on ADP
because we're not probably going to get
the non-farm payrolls number and it
hasn't hit yet. So uh that's not good
news for ADP or for anybody in the
markets. But we will say that you go to
war with the army that you have, not the
army that you want. So it is ADP that
everybody is going to be focused on
along with a little bit later the ISM
manufacturing numbers and the ISM in a
couple of days the ISM services numbers.
Get some sort of read on what people are
saying about the overall labor market.
Now right now um we still haven't seen
the ADP numbers pop up. Mike, they had
one job. This was their big moment. This
was it. ADP. It's what everyone wanted
to see. There it is, Mike. Give it to
me. It's not nice. It's not good.
>> Contraction. Not good. Uh -32,000
is the headline number for ADP, which is
uh obviously the worst in quite some
time. Uh goods producing jobs down by
3,000 within that category. Construction
off by 5,000. People have been waiting
for that. Uh manufacturing down by
2,000. 28,000 service industry jobs ADP
says were lost. 19,000 in leisure and
hospitality and uh professional and
business services down 13,000. The only
real positive category is education and
health services which is always the big
hiring place 33,000
uh on the month. As far as pay insights,
median change in annual pay for job
stayers was up four and a half%. If you
change jobs, you got a six and a half%
raise, they said. So, this is where we
are. Uh oh, and last month, by the way,
revised down to a 3,000 negative uh job
print instead of 54,000.
You know, uh if we had these numbers and
then we're getting non-farm payrolls on
Friday, you'd see a lot of people maybe
starting to change their forecasts for
Friday and lower them because this is
not uh good number. And we have seen
ADP, as Lisa was saying, get a little
bit closer to the overall numbers on a
month-by-month release basis than the
BLS until those revisions come in.
>> Mike, you're a pro as always. Appreciate
the breakdown and the tap dance. Mike
McKe there with a job number. That's a
big downside surprise. That's a
disappointing number and you're seeing
the bond market respond to it. We're
down by five or six basis points at the
front end of the curve. Two's back to
355. 10's down by four, 4.1%. That's a
big disappointment. And if you were
concerned about the step down in
payrolls growth, I think that's more
fuel for concern off the back of that
report.
>> Yeah, at this point we're looking at a
95% chance that the Fed is going to cut
rates at the uh October 29th meeting in
Washington DC on the backs of this
report. You also just saw the lowest
reading on this ADP print going back to
March of 2023. So definitely signaling
some weakness and essentially this gives
ammunition to those who are saying the
riskmanagement tool here is catering to
the labor market not necessarily trying
to tackle inflation.
>> Greg Dubo of EY is with us around the
table. Greg, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This is all we've got. How useful is
this number and what are the limitations
around it?
>> Well, I think it's useful in the sense
that we don't have anything else. Uh I
would push back a little bit on the
notion that the ADP is necessarily the
best gauge of BLS uh reports when it
comes to employment because it's just
focused on the the private sector. Um it
also does not include all the details
that we get out of the employment
report. So it is a good reading in terms
of having a perspective on the labor
market but it excludes some important
parts of the labor market including the
public sector where we're anticipating
some further losses both at the federal
level but also at the state local level
as we start the new year with less
funding for many state and local
governments. So I think the weakness is
apparent in terms of labor demand in the
labor market more broadly. Whether you
look at continuing claims for
unemployment, whether you look at
yesterday's data on job flows, the Jolts
report showing the hiring rate and the
quits rate at a 10-year low, not just a
few months low, but a 10-year low
showing there's very little flow in the
labor market. There is underlying
softness in the labor demand components
and the labor supply of course has been
tremendously affected by the reduction
in immigration. So, it's a combo, but I
think labor demand is weaker than labor
supply at this juncture. Are you saying
that we've been sort of in this stasis
low higher low fire range for a while
and now we're actually seeing the the
labor market break to the downside?
>> I think there are certainly risks to
that. Uh the low higher low fire
environment is not sustainable. It's an
uncomfortable balance. You rarely stay
in that balance for a prolonged period
of time because either one of two things
happens. Either you see employers
starting to hire more. That's the good
story. That's positive story. or you see
more layoffs because essentially there's
a desire to manage costs. And let's not
forget we are still in the midst of an
environment where there are a number of
supply shocks affecting the economy. Too
many people are still reading the
economy as if it were guided by demand
shocks. This is not the case. Supply
shocks are increasingly important.
Whether it's tariffs and trade
disruptions, immigration disruptions,
energy disruptions, capital disruptions,
all of those factors are affecting
economic trends in a way that we haven't
seen before. Think of technological
shifts as well. AI, a big big shock to
the economy. We're not reading the
economy in the proper way. And that's
why many people are confused about the
economic signals. The mixed signals are
the reflection of an economy that is
impacted by a significant number of
supply shocks.
>> Yeah. And essentially this is an economy
and dramatic transformation. I just
wonder how you square the idea of
profits growing across Wall Street
across a lot of corporate America at the
same time that we see this low higher
lowfire dynamic potentially breaking to
the downside
>> because everybody's taking about the
consumer about the market about the
business environment. It's not like
that. There is a tremendous degree of
polarization across businesses across
consumers across the economy when it
comes to how these shocks are affecting
different actors in the economy. Take
tariffs. Tariffs are not affecting
everyone in the same way. Those that are
very price sensitive are seeing the
prices at grocery stores rising and
they're pulling back on demand. They're
seeing retail uh costs also rising.
They're pulling back. Those that are at
the higher end of the income spectrum,
they're less concerned about an increase
for a price ticket uh to go somewhere to
fly somewhere on vacation, but they're
also gradually being more cautious. And
the same applies to businesses. Not all
businesses, not all sectors are created
equal in the face of this supply shock.
If you're more heavily leaning towards
the tech sector, then you're going to be
benefiting from this AI boost. If you're
a big corporation that is investing in
AI, you're also going to be investing
more in capex. We're seeing that in the
GDP data. So, it really depends on where
you lie on the spectrum of the economy
and how exposed you are to these shocks.
>> Greg, what if we get a prolonged
government shutdown and this is all the
Fed has to go off of. Unfortunately,
this is not the best time to have a
government shutdown. Of course, there is
the immediate effect of essentially
800,000 federal workers not being paid
and being put on furlow. Um, that can
have a notable impact on the economy. We
estimate a drag of about a tenth of GDP
growth for every week of government
shutdown. But importantly for business
leaders, policy makers, and economists,
this means we're flying by blind in a
highly foggy environment. And this is
very risky. Can we get a shutdown
induced recession in some pockets of the
US economy?
>> Perhaps in some pockets of the economy
uh but not necessarily broadly speaking.
This is not significant enough to really
bring the economy to its knees when it
comes to a potential recession. But we
are seeing some sectors that are seeing
outsized uh declines in terms of
economic activity. You look at the
housing sector for instance, a sector
that is also hit by insufficient supply,
but increasingly by the drag of demand
from a low affordability environment. If
you start to see more segments of the
economy affected negatively by
government shutdown, think about the
area around DC, think about contractors
that depend on federal funding, then
that could put further downward pressure
on a housing market that is already
struggling. So regionally and
sectorally, you could have these
pressures that are outsized and that
weigh on economic activity. Not a
broad-based recession, but a more
pronounced slowdown and potentially a
contraction in some sectors, some
regions of the country.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Just moments ago, the ADP
report of course taking on additional
importance this week because we might
not get the payroll report this Friday
came in at 32K negative 32K. We were
looking for 51,000 in our survey. That
was the median estimate. a revision to
the previous month as well. That was 54.
It's now negative three. Greg just got
this question from a Bloomberg
subscriber. They said the cycle is
always stop spending, stop hiring, then
start firing. And the question they've
got is the natural progression always
the same in a slowdown. Is it any
different this time? I think it's very
different this time around because we're
affected by supply shocks. Supply side
dynamics are very different this time
around than they've been any time over
the past few decades. And I think that's
why you're seeing these unusual
evolutions when it comes to the
different sectors of the economy. We
have rarely seen a low higher low fire
or even no higher no fire type of
environment. Uh that is not a
comfortable balance. Again, I think we
are likely to see further weakness on
the labor demand side that's going to
weigh on economic momentum. One key
indicator that I watch, I I know it's a
lagging indicator, but it's income
growth. If you look at real disposable
income growth, it's only been growing at
a 2% pace. Consumer spending still
growing close to 3%. At one point, the
dip into savings is not going to be
sufficient to sustain uh spending. And
the majority or sorry, the minority of
people that are still doing most of the
spending cannot do so forever. The
higher income individuals are also
gradually being impacted by higher
prices and importantly by higher
interest rates. If there starts to be
some volatility in the equity market
because of a government shutdown or
because of other developments, then that
could weigh on these individuals desires
and potentially means to spend.
>> Greg, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Pleasure. Greg Do there of EY. Mike
McKe still with us. Mike, I've got about
30 on the clock. I know you wanted to
jump back in.
>> Yeah, we've got an important note from
ADP here that you remember when the BLS
revised down its job creation numbers
for the last year. uh ADP did the same
thing and they say the September number
is 32,000 uh but a loss of 32,000 jobs
but the overall reduction from the
revision was 43,000 jobs. So now it's
even more confusing. Mike, you can bring
some clarity and maybe settle down some
nerves in about 5 minutes time. We'll be
back in a second. Coming up on the
program, Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO with
future economic data in jeopardy
following that government shutdown. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
The oven and power is about 60 minutes
away. Moments ago, 15 minutes ago, we
had the ADP report. A downside surprise,
negative 32K. The estimate was 51. The
revision to the previous month, not
great either. The stock market's down
about 0.4% on the S&P. That's largely
where we were in the bond market though,
an additional bid, a rally particularly
at the front end of the curve. Yields
down by more than five basis points. The
2-year at 355.
So that's the cross asset picture,
stocks and bonds. Let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Here's Yahihara with more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with the power company
AES. Shares are surging 11%. Honor
reporting that Black Rockck Global
Infrastructure Partners is in advanced
talks to buy the company. Uh AES is
valued at about $ 38 billion including
debt, but it has lagged its peers,
making it right for a buyer that
believes AI will continue to drive
demand for electricity. Meanwhile,
moving on to Pelaton, those shares are
up 3% after it just made its first major
moves under new management, which as
they try to lift the company out of a
slump that has lasted for years. So,
they raised prices and also introduced
updates to its bikes and other workout
machines while also rolling out Pelaton
IQ, which is an AI system for
personalized coaching. And after that
workout, you're going to need some
protein, which leads me to my next
stock, Cowine Foods. This is the largest
egg producer in the US. Shares are
plunging down 10% even after the company
reported its strongest first quarter
ever, but they fell short of analyst
estimates. Still egg sales were strong
driven by higher prices and higher
volumes and the company says that's all
thanks to soaring demand for protein.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Some of the movers
going into the opening pound about 59
minutes away. Moments ago, we got that
economic data ADP coming in softer than
expected. Mike McKe mentioned this. I
think this is an important note what it
could mean for payrolls, what any of
this would mean for payrolls on Friday.
If you're interested in what the
estimate actually is for payrolls on
Friday, Lisa, it's still 52,000. the
median estimate, the high iss 129, the
low is minus 20. You'd imagine all of
that would shift lower after a number
like the one we just got,
>> especially given what Greg was talking
about. This is private payrolls. If
private payrolls shows this kind of
weakness, and Kevin Gordon over at
Charles Schwab points out that
construction jobs declining by uh 5,000
is the lowest going back to 2020. If
you're seeing that in the private
sector, throw on top of it the public
self sector where there are a bunch of
cuts going on and it probably would be
even worse. So, it raises a question of
is it really uh potentially pointing to
even more downside uh over for non-farm
payrolls.
>> Let's get to Mike McKe now for more.
Mike, welcome back. You've had a second
and a third look at this number. Help us
understand what's behind this all.
>> I wish I could. Uh I said you go to war
with the army that you have rather than
the one that you want, but what if you
can't count the army correctly? uh that
seems to be the case here. Uh ADP has uh
said as part of this report that they
use the QCEW, the quarterly census of uh
employment from the uh BLS that is done
to incorporate un uh un uh unemployment
insurance claims. So that's more
accurate. You remember 900,000 jobs were
taken away uh in the past year from the
NFP numbers, but the uh government
doesn't portion those by month until
January. ADP has done it now. And so
while they're saying there was a
negative 32,000 jobs created, they also
say they subtracted 43,000 jobs from the
month because of the revision. It also
had an impact on August as well, which
is now a negative 3,000. That chart I
was just showing there was uh how the
you the uh non-farm payrolls private
numbers and the ADP numbers uh how much
they missed by and you could see they'd
gotten a lot better but I suspect this
month is going to be kind of difficult
to figure out if we get an NFP report
because of this revision by ADP. You had
a chart showed what we'll miss. Uh
construction spending gets the honor of
being the first report that probably
doesn't come out uh tomorrow. jobless
claims. Reuters reporting that that we
will not get jobless claims. Uh we're
going to keep an eye on that. The labor
department hasn't put out a release on
it yet. Uh factory orders, then the jobs
report and then of course CPI and the
third quarter GDP numbers, two big
numbers coming up that we won't get. And
the longer term threat of all this is
that there are going to be things that
can't be measured if this goes on long
enough. get past the week that includes
the 12th and you won't get data
collected for October jobs. And if you
go maybe another week longer, you won't
get enough data for the October CPI. So,
there are some real issues here with the
government shutdown and data. Uh, we can
hope it's short and that they can get
all this stuff out very quickly.
>> We can only hope. Mike, thank you.
Thanks for explaining all of that. Mike
McKe with the latest. Tiffany Wilder
Pimco joins us now for more. Tiffany,
welcome to the program. Let's say this
is all we've got and there's a lot still
to play for in October. It's only just
started. I've got no idea how long the
shutdown goes on for, but let's say this
is all we've got. Is there anything in
here that would stop this Federal
Reserve from just cutting interest rates
again at the end of the month?
>> No, I mean, so I think clearly this ADP
report was was weak. Um, and I think
digging through the details of it, you
know, I think there's an interesting
bifurcation in um uh in large versus
small and medium business sizes. Um this
has been something we've been very
focused on um because we think that the
this economy is basically creating
winners and losers. Um the tariffs, the
technology uh improvements that we're
seeing, the the various tax cuts, all of
that we think is benefiting um somewhat
more larger companies and it's a really
uh really challenging environment for
those small and mid-size businesses and
that's where you saw the um you know
some more of the weakness. Um I think
that in terms of the ADP report contra
you know the fact that it contracted if
you adjust the payroll survey uh the
government survey for the overestimation
in that survey over recent years um you
you know you can get to numbers that
look like they were contractionary over
the last 3 months as well. So I I think
these surveys are are given a consistent
signal that we are seeing some um some
more concerning weakness in the labor
market. And so right now you're seeing
priced into the market uh 101% chance of
a 25 basis point rate cut at the October
29th uh press conference and meeting and
then in December again almost a 100%
chance 88% chance of another cut. I just
wonder Tiffany is that the solution to
what essentially is the K-shaped economy
that's getting to be an even bigger K.
Yeah, I mean so so I think that's right
there. There is um you know I think
interest rate cuts um as a result of the
fact that the the the shock that we're
going through right now um is both a
demand and supply side shock. Tariffs
and both immigration will have supply
side effects as well. Um you know of
course central bank policy is is not
well suited to deal with supply shocks
but nevertheless policy is in
restrictive territory. And um you know I
think when you're in an economy that is
going through this type of transition
given the policy U-turns arguing that
it's closer to neutral is certainly very
reasonable. And I think the interesting
thing that we're seeing you know since
the implementation of tariffs is that
the adjustment that the economy is
making to tariffs is not primarily
through price adjustments. Um but it
actually looks like it's it's happening
through the labor market as well. Um as
companies are trying to cut uh labor and
other costs. So that just means, you
know, we think that means the Federal
Reserve uh has room to cut interest
rates here. They are they still have
rates that are above neutral. Getting
back to that uh is very reasonable. Um
in our minds, uh given the weakness of
the labor market we're seeing,
>> this is really a strange moment where
you're seeing companies adapt and adjust
to the tariffs by potentially cutting
workers. That's what you're saying. Not
just raising prices and yet continuing
to uh report really good earnings,
continuing to really deliver and and
highlight the strength of the consumer.
Can you square that circle? I mean, how
does that make sense? The fact that the
consumer is strong, layoffs are
happening because that's the way that
companies are dealing with this. Uh, and
so that companies are profiting. At some
point, does that flywheel stop going?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, I think it gets back
to your point on the K-shaped economy.
So, we see it on the business side as
well. I think the the largest businesses
um you know that uh you know that
primarily make up the S&P index for
example um you know I think they're the
relative beneficiaries of uh of these
various policies. So you have pretty
large tax cuts that was that were also
passed in the one big beautiful bill
that um you know that will benefit
companies that are relatively capital
intensive. They do a lot of capbacks.
They'll get upfront expensing for all of
that. Um, you know, and if those
companies, uh, you know, can offset
those tax cuts, offset the tariff, uh,
tariffs that they now have to pay,
they're in a pretty good position. You
know, the smaller and mid-size companies
that maybe have less uh, capex will be
um, in a worse off position. So, you
know, I think those are the companies
right now that are are facing the most
pressure. Um, you know, the the the
broader indices of smaller companies
like the Russell, for example, it's not
done as well. Uh, those equities have
not done as well this year. I think very
reflective of that theme. Um, you know,
and I think the real question for the
broader economy is, um, you know, is
how, you know, I would actually argue
we're not seeing, um, a huge amount of
layoffs yet. What we've seen instead is
is that the gross hiring rates have
declined, um, you know, very
tremendously. Um, so the question in our
minds is, you know, how um how how these
struggling businesses, how how much will
they lay off uh labor over the coming
months? Um, you know, and will that cool
off the broader economy? So, Tiffany,
can you see Fed officials arguing that
instead of tariff induced inflation, we
can have labor market weakness that's
tariff induced? And shouldn't those that
are concerned about the tariffs actually
be on board with now wanting to cut
rates?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I I certainly think that
is that's the argument that we're
making. Um, and I think that as you get
more data, uh, that you will see more
and more Federal Reserve officials
coming around to that argument as well.
Um, I think Mary Dailyaly in recent
public comments has made that data. Of
course, Chris, uh, Christopher Waller,
Governor Waller has also come out with
some pretty big concerns about the labor
market. Um, so I I think that, yeah,
certainly, um, as we get more
information and you have more certainty
within the FOMC, uh, you know, we think
they cut interest rates, uh, you know, a
couple of more times this year, uh, as a
result of that. Now, of course, the
government shutdown, the fact that we
aren't going to get uh potentially
aren't going to get data releases or the
data quality could be poorer over the
next couple of months before we go into
the November meeting could be
problematic. Um, you know, but again, of
course, the ADP data that we've gotten,
um, some of the other private sources of
data will be more important. Um, and
that's what they'll be using.
>> Besides the fact that we're not going to
get economic releases, how concerned are
you about the government shutdown?
Well, I mean, traditionally, government
shutdowns have just a temporary effect
on um on the economy. The uh you know,
the the workers that are furoughed or
that aren't paid ultimately when the
government opens will get back pay. So,
this is usually just a temporary effect.
Um you know, now uh it's possible that
we could have a longer uh shutdown. We
would argue that the effects start to
get nonlinear after you get uh workers,
contract workers and and government
workers that start to miss a couple of
paychecks. I think one paycheck probably
okay, but as you get more that are
missed, then that's when you start to
see a bigger impact on consumption. The
other thing is is that there could be
permitting delays. You know, the
government uh you know does uh you know
does does give out permits for
investment. Um and the longer that that
those kinds of services are shut down,
you know, you could see some delays in
investment as well. So, you know,
ultimately this this can get larger as
time goes on. I think the largest
government shutdown um historically has
been, you know, maybe a couple of weeks.
Uh we hope that's the case again, but
you know, and as of now, we think this
is a temporary issue, but but certainly
we're monitoring uh the situation.
>> That sigh resonated with us all.
Tiffany, thank you. Tiffany Welding at
Pimco. Tiffany, thank you so much. I
think it resonated with most people in
this market. If you're just joining us,
welcome to this program. So, we got a
government shutdown. We don't know how
long it's going to go on for. There's a
big question mark now over the release
of jobless claims on Thursday. A big
question mark over the release of
payrolls on Friday. So this is what
we've got to work with. ADP and a big
downside surprise - 32K against a median
estimate of 51.
>> Look, it sounds like it's all confusing.
what it is clear and I think that Greg
put it really well and I think that
Tiffany Wilding put it really well which
is that on the margins companies aren't
hiring and to the extent that they are
laying people off on the margins that's
showing up because the whole pool of
workers isn't as big I'm just struggling
with yes we're all exhausted but there's
a very real issue here the Fed has a
hammer it is sees something it has to be
a nail but ultimately the K-shaped
economy is not going to go away with
rate cuts what it's going to do is it's
going to increase the asset price
inflation that we've already seen even
if it doesn't increase the inflation in
the underlying economy. How do people
grapple with that? Well, Max Kentner is
buying into stocks. And if you can,
that's what people are doing.
>> And he's not alone.
>> Exactly.
>> And they're buying gold. Gold in the
S&P. Gold in the S&P. And that's worked
well so far this year.
>> At some point, this breaks down though
because at some point, what are the
limits of that case shape, whether it is
a political response or whether it ends
up being uh something that has to come
from legislation? five years in the
making at least over the pandemic and
post pandemic but some might say it's
decades in the making GFC and the
central bank response to that
>> and how much does the AI uh transition
accelerate that given the fact that
companies are finding oh hey guess what
I don't need a secretary to do that for
me I don't need uh an entry- level
person to do that for me hey chat GPT
what should I wear today
>> some of that's going on if you ask that
question have you
>> no never ever absolutely not
>> I don't believe you now at all von your
love this by six basis points. The
2-year at 354, 10's down five at 4.1%.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Well, let's recap
the data. Private payrolls unexpectedly
dropping in September. ADP data showed
private sector payrolls down by 32,000
last month. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg were calling for an increase
of 51,000 jobs. Goods producing jobs
fell by 3,000. Service producing jobs
were down 28,000.
Walmart is planning to remove synthetic
dyes from its storeb food products in
the US. The world's largest retailer
will also eliminate 30 other
ingredients, including some artificial
sweeteners, fat substitutes, and
preservatives.
Excuse me, which will apply to all store
brand food and beverages. The changes go
into effect by January of 2027. And
that's your Bloomberg brief done.
>> Appreciate it, Vonnie. Thank you so much
Ronnie Quinn there with the latest. Up
next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, VC area of Bank
for America Securities as Big Tech's AI
spending spree continues. That
conversation up next
[Music]
I would push back a little bit on the
notion that the ADP is necessarily the
best gauge of BLS uh reports when it
comes to employment because it's just
focused on the the private sector. The
weakness is apparent in terms of labor
demand in the labor market more broadly.
The low hire low fire environment is not
sustainable.
>> That was great echo of EY following this
number. negative 32,000 on ADP. The
estimate in our survey 51K. Some
negative revisions in there, too. Stocks
were softer going into it. Stocks look
like this. Now, we're down by 0.4% on
the S&P, but there was a turn in the
bond market. Yields just took another
leg lower. If you look at the front end
of the curve, 2's down by six now. The
2-year at 35470.
Typically, you might not see a move like
this off the back of data like that from
ADP. But this takes on additional
importance because we don't know if
we'll get the payrolls report this
coming Friday. This is what it looks
like for the week ahead. The trading
diary shaping up as follows. So we will
get the PMIs. We will get ISM. Look out
for that a little bit later this
morning. We might not get jobless claims
Thursday morning. So big question mark
around that. And a big question mark
around the big one. Will we? Won't we?
Maybe the payrolls report coming Friday
morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> Yeah. So this is what we've got and
right now it looks pretty bad. Andrew uh
Andrew from Alliance Bernstein, Andrew
Brener came out and said that this is
the biggest two-month decline that we've
seen in ADP going back to 2020. A lot of
2020 comparisons given how good the
labor market has been until then. And it
raises the question, why is bad news in
the labor market, not bad news for an
equity market or not worse news for an
equity market that has been, to use Tom
Keane's word, ascendant for the better
half of 2025. Because the Fed is driven
by this story in the labor market and
the equity market is driven by this in
the stock market. Nvidia, a market cap
surpassing a record $4.5 trillion after
a slew of recent deals. The Vearia of
Bank of America securities reiterating
his buy rating following Nvidia's 100
billion investment in open AI predicting
the investment could generate 300 to 500
billion in revenue. VC joins us now for
more. VC welcome to the program. It's
always good to get your perspective.
You've heard the complaints financial
engineering, circular finance. How are
you framing these announcements of the
last month?
>> Sure, John. I think that uh you know we
are incredibly positive on the AI
infrastructure deployment cycle. I think
we are just in the first uh you know few
years of what could be a 10 to 15 year
cycle of uh essentially remaking uh the
world's uh infrastructure from
traditional to accelerated uh computing
and then uh generating a ton of insights
from all the data that is just sitting
out there and semiconductor companies
are extremely well positioned to benefit
from the early part of that deployment
and I think Nvidia is the best of the
bunch because it has the best turnkey
model to benefit uh from this uh
infrastructure deployment. Now, in terms
of uh the complaints about uh investing
in their uh customers, I I do think the
optics are questionable. No doubt about
that. But then if you step back and say
that if the overall deployment is going
to be u multiple 100 gawatt over the
next uh several years, what Nvidia is
investing in is maybe 10 gawatt, so less
than 5% of that um uh overall
deployment. And the second point to
consider is that it's not like they're
just handing over free uh GPUs uh to
OpenAI. For every uh GPU that they will
uh in uh they uh for every investment
that they will do in OpenAI or $10
billion of investment, OpenAI will have
to go and raise another $30 to$50
billion to complete that installation.
So that's why I think you have to look
at the bigger picture that this is a way
for Nvidia to push what is probably the
most disruptive force in AI deployments.
And I think it has a force multiplier
effect on on the overall infrastructure
deployment cycle.
>> I think the the thing that concerns
people is that a lot of people are
looking at the big picture. They're
looking out 10 years. They're looking
out 20 years. They're getting incredibly
excited. They're saying let's all price
it in now. How much of the entire story
for 10 years has been priced in without
necessarily seeing the percolation into
the rest of the industries throughout
the S&P 500, Russell 2000, etc.
>> Sure. No, I think it is true that uh you
know the market capitalizations of many
of these companies have increased uh
considerably in a short uh period of
time but we also have to consider that
the amount of capital spending has also
increased uh commensurately. If you look
at this in terms of traditional
valuation metrics, Nvidia today is
trading at maybe about the same multiple
as the day chart GPT was launched in
2022. So it was trading at about 30
times forward earnings that day and it
is still trading at about 30 times uh
forward earnings despite uh the
tremendous amount of uh growth uh
potential ahead. If you think of this in
terms of price toearnings uh growth um
right the S&P 500 is trading at two
times its earnings growth. Nvidia is
trading at less than one times its
earnings growth. So I think based on
traditional valuation uh measures we
think that the stock is still incredibly
uh cheap and not not just Nvidia. I
think there are a number of other
companies in the semiconductor sector
that are trading at about one times
earnings growth well below uh where many
of the uh large cap growth companies are
trading at or where the S&P 500 is is
trading at. But it's really about what
is going to be the pace of capex
deployments. And our view is that as
long as there is this disruptive force
such as open AI that is able to uh uh
impact uh the social uh the cloud
computing uh the consumer the enterprise
models. It is going to keep the pressure
on every other hyperscaler to invest and
we think these semiconductor companies
benefit tremendously uh from that.
Vivic, just real quick here. What would
you see that could potentially raise the
red flag that there is something that
seems a little overly exuberant or
frothy or bubbious about this sector?
>> Absolutely. I I think the the it starts
and ends with capital spending. I think
that's what we pay the most attention
to. It is not the daily headlines around
China. It is not the headlines around
this model is better or that model is
better. Follow capital spending. And
when you look at the commentary from uh
the largest companies on the planet
which are the US hyperscalers uh every
move that they are making in capital
spending is up and to the right. That's
that's what we focus on and as long as
uh those companies are able to justify
the amount of capital spending as long
as they are able to see uh the you know
whether it is the competitive forces
that are pushing them to do so uh
whether it is uh the ability to generate
new sources of of revenue growth that
are pushing them to do so it doesn't
matter you know as long as their capital
spending tab is on I I think our the
companies that we follow are extremely
well um you know extremely well
positioned of course not every capital
spending cycle is always a straight
line. There are going to be invariably
periods of digestion. It's just hard to
know when those periods of digestion
happen. So follow the line of capital
spending. You know, follow the moves of
these hyperscalers in terms of uh you
know, asking for more computing
capacity, more data center capacity, you
know, access to power. I think those
things matter a lot more than as I
mentioned the daily noise around, you
know, large language models or talks of
bubble, etc. Follow capital spending.
That that's the most important thing.
>> VC, appreciate your statement, your
perspective as always. Thank you, sir.
Vecary there of Bank of America
Securities. I remember not so long ago
being on one trillion dollar watch and
here we are at 4.5 trillion Nvidia,
Microsoft 3.85, Apple 3.8, Amazon 2.3,
Meta close to two, Broadcom above a
trillion. You've got Alphabet close to
three. The numbers just go on and on and
they're getting bigger and bigger. When
you compare them to the GDP of entire
nations, it starts to look like it's
their world. We're just living in it.
>> It's pretty crazy, isn't it? Coming up
tomorrow, Kelsey Barrow of JP Morgan,
Sarah Hunt of Empire Saxon, words, Mike
Pile of Black Rockck, Big Chalada of
Deutsche Bank.
[Music]